 Commercia l users intending to provide launch services  from one of the ranges shall have a license or license application in process from the Department  of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or have a DoD sponsorship and be  accepted by the DoD to  use the ER or WR.
 Foreign government organizations or other foreign  entities shall be sponsored by an appropriate US government organization or be a customer of a  Range User.
 Range User proposed alternative solutions shall achieve an equivalent  level of safety and be approved by Range Safety.
   During the review and approval process, both Range Safety and the Range User shall  assure timely coordination with other SLD agencies as appropriate.
 The  design, inspection, and testing of all hazardous and safety critical launch vehicle, payload, and  ground support equipment, systems, subsystems, and materia ls to be used at the ranges shall be in  accordance with the requirements of this volume, to include documentation as described in  Chapter  4 and Attachme nt 2 of this volume.
   All systems shall be designed to tolerate a minimum number of credible failures, based  on the degree of fault tolerance required.
   Those systems that do not have specific design  criteria or systems not a ddressed in this volume shall be designed to the following general criteria:  (See SSCMAN 91 -710, Volume 1, Chapter 3, Table 3.
   If a system failure may lead to a catastrophic hazard, the system shall have  three inhibits  (dual fault tolerant).
   If a system failure may lead to a critical hazard, the system shall have two inhibits  (single fault tolerant).
   If a system failure may lead to a marginal hazard, the system shall have a single inhibit  (no fault tolerant).
   Probabilities of hazard occurrence associated with launch and reentry that can endanger  a population shall be taken into consideration wh en determining the number of required  inhibits.
   Systems shall be able to be brought to a safe state with the loss of an inhibit.
   All inhibits shall be independent and verifiable.
 Common c ause failures shall be  assessed in determining inhibit independence.
   Design inhibits shall consist of electrical and/or mechanical hardware.
   Operator controls shall not be considered a design inhibit.
   Range Users shall develop a preliminary SSPP in accordance with SSCMAN 91 -710  Volume 1, Attachment 3 and submit to Range Safety for  review and approval within 45  calendar days of the Program Introduction (PI) and a final SSPP at least 45 calendar days  before any System Requirements Review (SRR) or equivalent program activity.
   Range Users shall develop and submit hazard analyses to Range Safety for review and  approval in accordance w ith SSCMAN 91 -710 Volume 1, Attachment 3.
   Range Safety shall review and provide comments to each of the hazard analyses  submittals at or before the appropriate SRR, Preliminary Design Review (PDR), and  Critical Design Review (CDR).
   Rang e Users shall not transport hazardous materials to the installation or  commence hazardous operations prior to receiving final approval of hazard analysis  reports.
   SSPPs and hazard analyses for DoD programs shall comply with MIL -STD -882,  Departmen t of Defense Standard Practice for System Safety , data requirements, or  commercial equivalent for commercial FAA -licensed programs.
   Rang e Users with overall responsibility for the launch vehicle, reusable launch  vehicle, payload, or ground support systems shall submit an MSPSP; for commercial  payloads, the payload MSPSP is normally submitted to Range Safety through the launch  vehicle contr actor.
   Incremental draft versions of the MSPSP shall be delivered to Range Safety at  least 45 days prior to the SRR, PDR, and CDR, or equivalent program activities.
   Range Safety shall review and provide comments to each of the MSPSP sub mittals  at or before the appropriate SRR, PDR, and CDR, or equivalent program activities.
   A final MSPSP that satisfies all Range Safety concerns addressed at the CDR shall  be submitted to Range Safety at least 45 calendar days prior to the Pre -Ship Review (PSR)  or equivalent program activity.
   Range Safety shall review the final MSPSP and if the MSPSP is found to be  satisfactory, approve it within 10 calendar days of receipt.
 The final MSPSP shall be  approved before shipment of associated  hardware to the ranges.
   All MSPSP associated test plans shall be submitted at least 45 calendar days before the  intended test plan use.
 Range User requests to eliminate or reduce testing shall be justified with  clear and convincing evidence presented to the SLD Commander (SLD/CC) for approval.
   Range Safety shall review and comment on or approve test plans within 45 calendar  days of receipt.
 Disapproved test plans shall be corrected and resubmitted.
   Test reports shall be submitted at least 45 calendar days of intended system use.
   Range Safety shall review, comment, and approve test reports within 10 calendar days  of receipt.
 Disapproved test reports shall be corrected and resubmitted.
   Unless otherwise specified in a separate part of this document that addresses a particular  class of system or equipment, a nondestructive examination (NDE)  plan shall include the  following:   4.
   Unless otherwise specified in a separate part of this document that addresses a particular  class of system or equipment, the NDE pla n shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and  approval as soon as developed and no later than the program PDR, unless otherwise agreed to  by Range Safety.
   Each  launch control center, blockhouse, and firing room, as applicable, shall provide  for a Pad Safety Console (PSC).
 MIL -STD -1472, Human Engineering Design Criteria for  Military Systems, Equipment, and Facilities , shall be used as appropriate in designing the  PSC.
  Note:  The term ‘Pad Safety Console’ has also been known in the past as ‘Operations Safety  Console’; the terms shall be considered interchangeable.
   The Range User (normally the launch vehicle provider) shall provide an ER/WR PSC  unless otherwi se agreed to by Range Safety.
 Range Safety shall approve the design, operation,  and maintenance of the PSC.
   The Range User shall provide ample and satisfactory space to install and operate the  console.
   No SFP components shall be in the grou nd support equipment (GSE) or firing  room/launch control center/blockhouse system that will cause the loss of a safety critical  system control or monitor (as determined by Range Safety) at the PSC.
   The PSC shall be in a dedicated position to provide the Pad Safety Supervisor/Pad  Safety Officer sufficient information and communications capability to convey safety status  and conditions to the appropriate authority (e.
 The monitor circuit shall be  designed so that the actual status of the critical parameters can be monitored rather than the  command transmittal.
   A PSC color television system shall be provided to ensure the coverage necessary to  view a ll hazardous operations in the launch complex.
   Control of the television system shall be available at the PSC.
   The PSC shall be capable of recording and playback of hazardous operations.
   Communication and video recording requirements shall be coordinated with the launch  controller and test conductor before the start of an operation.
   Designated recordings shall remain on file for 180 days.
   At a minimum, a PSC validation and checkout test shall be performed to demonstrate  the following:   5.
   Test plans, procedures, and test results shall be reviewed and approved by Range Safety.
   The Range User shall validate the requirements by providing a Compliance  Check List IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   Supporting data for commercial -off-the-shelf (COTS) equipment shall  include the following information:   6.
   MHE shall have documented traceability of material, manufacturer,  and acceptance testing to required codes and standards (e.
   Critical MHE shall be designed without single failure points (SFPs).
   Exceptions shall be identified, justified, and submitted to Range Safety for  approval.
 Supporting data shall include the following info rmation: (See also  Attachment  2, A2.
   SFP components and welds shall be access ible for nondestructive  inspection, maintenance, and repair.
   Load tests shall be conducted with certified weights and/or certified  weight fixt ures.
   These weights shall be identified and permanently and clearly marked  with the total weight and owner or agency identification number.
   Reinforcing steel (rebar) shall not be used for lift points.
   Weight fixtures shall be designed and load te sted IAW  requirements contained in paragraph  6.
   Weight fixtures shall be designed so that the loaded fixture center  of gravity is centered below the crane hook for a ll required weight  combinations.
   Lifting lugs shall be provided if required to enable handling of  empty test weight fixtures.
   Weight interlocking features shall be provided on both the weight  fixture and the weights to help prevent sliding of weights and to help even  stacking.
   Weightlifting lugs shall be proof tested to 125% of the total  weight before initial weig ht use.
   NDE plans shall be developed for MHE used to handle critical systems  and equipment and MHE containing SFPs.
   The NDE plan shall include detailed methodology, acceptance criteria,  frequency of inspecti on, and a clear schematic showing the exact location of the  items to be inspected.
   NDE shall be performed by qualified and certifi ed personnel IAW the  written practices and requirements contained in the American Society for  Nondestructive Testing (ASNT) SNT -TC-1A, Recommended Practice for  Personnel Qualifications and Certification in Nondestructive Testing .
 All equipment (new and modified) shall be  permanently marked IAW applicable codes and standards and have a permanently  attached identification tag with the following information:   6.
   Systems/equipment requiring testing shall be tagged and test data  included in its data package.
   The tags shall be of durable material, preferably corrosion resistant  metal,  properly secured with corrosion and abrasion resistant wire or string, and  marked (stamped or etched) with the following minimum information:   6.
   The tags shall be accessible for inspection.
   If the assembly is to be disassembled after proof testing, each  component and subassembly shall be indivi dually tagged with the reference  designator, for example, removal and separate storage of a shackle bolt from the 20 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   shackle after the proof load.
   Slings shall be designed, manufactured, maintained, and stored in  accordance with ASME B30.
   Carbon steel or wrought iron chain slings shall not be used.
   Wire rope slings shall be formed with swaged or zinc -poured sockets or  spliced eyes.
   Wire rope clips or knots shall not be used to form slings.
   All synthetic slings shall be designed with an ultimate factor of safety of 5  or higher.
  Natural fiber rope or natural fiber web slings shall not be used.
   Rotation resistant rope shall not be used for fabricating slings.
   Before their first operational use at the range s and following modifications  or repairs, slings shall be inspected and tested to 200% of their rated load in accordance  with ASME B30.
   BTHLDs shall be designed by a structural engineer and manufactured to the  specified rated loads and load geometry of Design Category B (with a minim um yield  safety factor of 3) in accordance with ASME BTH -1, Design of Below -the-Hook Lifting  Devices , and ASME B30.
   Material used in the construction of BTHLDs shall exhibit a ductile failure  mode.
 Use of brittle materials shall require SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  21  Range Safety review and approval, on a case -by-case basis.
 If bri ttle materials (less than  5 percent elongation -to-failure) are used, BTHLDs shall be designed to include a safety  factor to ultimate of 5 based on rated loads.
   Before their first operational use  at the ranges and following modifications  or repairs, BTHLDs shall be inspected and proof tested to 125% of the rated load in  accordance with ASME B30.
 The rated load shall not exceed 80% of the actual  test load.
 If the BTHLD contains  components such as slings and shackles, then these components shall be proof tested  individually to their respective proof load levels (200% of the rated load for slings and  shackles) and the whole assembly then proof test ed to 125% of the rated load.
   For BTHLDs used to support critical operations, volumetric and surface  NDE shall be performed on all SFP components and welds after the initial proof load  test IAW the Range Safety approved NDE plan.
   Handling st ructures shall be designed with a yield factor of safety of 3 based  on rated loads.
   Handling structures at the WR shall be designed to accommodate the worst - case seismic load IAW Chapter  17.
   Material (including fittings and attachment hardware) used in the  construction of handling structures shall exhibit a ductile failure mode.
 Use of brittle materials shall require Range  Safety review and approval, on a case -by-case basis.
 If brittle materials ( less than 5 percent  elongation -to-failure) are used, handling structures shall be designed to include a safety  factor to ultimate of 5 based on rated loads.
   Before their first opera tional use, all new, altered, modified, or repaired  handling structures shall be inspected IAW applicable industry methodology and the  Range Safety approved NDE plan and load tested to 150% of the rated load.
   Handling structures designed to a f actor of safety less than 3, but greater than  or equal to 2, shall be initially inspected and load tested to 125% of rated load.
   For handling structures used to support critical operations, volumetric and  surface NDE shall be performed on all S FP components and welds after the initial proof  load test IAW the Range Safety approved NDE plan.
   Support structures shall be designed with a yield safety factor of 3 based on  rated loads.
   Material (including fittings and attachment har dware) used in the  construction of support structures shall exhibit a ductile failure mode.
 Use of brittle materials shall require R ange Safety review and  approval, on a case -by-case basis.
 If brittle materials (less than 5 percent elongation -to-failure)  are used, support structures shall be designed to include a sa fety factor to ultimate of 5  based on rated loads.
   Portable ground support equipment, such as equipment racks, shall be  designed not to tip when fully loaded and/or moved.
 For heavy moveable support and  handling equipment, lifting lugs and fork lift handling, such as fork tubes, shall be  incorporated to provide for safe handling.
   Before their first operational use, all new, altered, modified, or repaired  support structures designed to a yield factor of safety of at least 3 shall be inspected  and load tested IAW applicable industry methodology and the Range Safety approved  NDE plan to 150% of rated load.
   Support structures designed to a factor of safety less than 3, but greater than  or equal to 2, shall be inspected and load tested to 125% of rated load.
   For support structures used to support critical operations, volumetric and  surface NDE shall be performed on all SFP components and welds after the ini tial proof  load test IAW the Range Safety approved NDE plan.
   Load positioning device and LID design shall ensure that positive control is  maintained at all times, and no actions are initiated or continued without the appropriate  controls command being given.
   Failure of the load positioning device or LID shall not result in dropping or  un-commanded movement of the suspended or supported load.
   Load positioning devices shall be designed with a mini mum ultimate factor  of safety of 5.
   LIDs shall be designed in accordance with ASME B30.
   A load positioning device and/or LID inspection plan, identifying all SFP  and NDE requirements, methodology, and acceptance  criteria, shall be submitted to  Range Safety for review and approval.
   Before their first operational use, new, altered, repaired, or modified load  positioning devices and LIDs shall be inspected and load tested to 200% of rated load  to verify controls and performance (for example, structural, mechanical, electrical).
  Load positioning devices and LIDs shall be load tested by the manufacturer or if  authorized, IAW the man ufacturer instructions to prevent system damage.
   NDE shall be performed during inspection and test per the NDE plan.
   For load positioning devices and LIDs used to support critical operations,  volumetric and surface NDE shall be perf ormed on all SFP components and welds after  the initial proof load test IAW the Range Safety approved NDE plan.
 All rigging hardware  shall be designed, manufactured, handled, and stored in accordance with ASME B30.
   Before first use, all new, modified, or repaired rigging hardware shall be  load tested to the proof loads specified in ASME B30.
   For rigging hardware used to support critical operations, vo lumetric and  surface NDE shall be performed on all SFP components and welds after the initial proof  load test IAW the Range Safety approved NDE plan.
26 shall be removed from service.
 MHE initial data requirements shall be submitted IAW  paragraphs  A2.
 MHE periodic/recurring data requirements  shall be submitted IAW requirements in SSCMAN 91 -710 Volume 6.
 Unless otherwise  agreed to by Range Safety and the Range User or otherwise stated in this Chapter, all design  engineering documents pertaining to MHE items shall be submitted to Range Safety for  review and approval at  least 30 days prior to major design reviews and program milestones  (i.
 Note : Range Users shall ensure that handling processes are designed  such that all crane and hoist testing requirements are met.
 Requirements of SSCMAN 91 -710  Volume 6, Chapter 6 shall also be met.
  Cranes and hoists shall comply with the requirements in the following industry  standards, as applicable, and the additional requirements described below:   6.
   Software safety hazard analysis shall be completed for critical cranes.
  Analysis shall include fish bone diagram (or other appropriate analysis method) that  allows for controls system troubleshooting for fault detection.
   Definitions and termino logy used in test and NDE plans shall be IAW standard  methodology used in the above applicable standards.
   Crane, hoist, and hook NDE plans shall be submitted to Range Safety for review  and approval.
 The plans shall identify all SFPs, NDE requirem ents and methodology, and  acceptance criteria.
   All crane specifications, test plans, and test results shall be reviewed and approved  by Range Safety.
 Test plans shall include a detailed list of initial and periodic inspections,  no-load tests, and  proof tests, to include frequency of testing.
   The service classifications found in CMAA 70 and 74 shall be used as the  basis for selecting cranes and hoists to be used on the ranges.
  Cranes used to handle critical loads shall be at least Class D in accordance  with CMAA classification, unless otherwise agreed to by Range Safety.
   Each overhead crane shall have the directions of its bridge and trolley  movements displayed on the  underside of the crane.
 These directions (North, East,  South, and West) shall correspond to the directions on the operator station.
   These markings shall be visible and legible from the floor and any operator  station.
   Crane and hoist design shall provide for safe and adequate access to  components to inspect, service, repair, or replace equipment.
   Access platforms and/or footwalks with guard rails and personnel tie -offs  shall be provided to perform the tasks in paragraph  6.
   Crane and hoist design shall provide for visual and physical accessibility of  all SFP components and welds and other safety critical parts during initial inspection.
   Clearances between the crane and stationary structures and clearances  between parallel cranes shall be provided in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.
 Rotation resistant wire rope with swivel links installed  shall not be used for any purpose.
 Cast iron and other similar brittle materials shall not be used in  load bearing parts.
   Hook shall be designed, fabri cated, inspected, and tested in accordance  with ASME B30.
   All hooks shall be equipped with a positive latching mechanism to prevent  accidental load disengagement.
   The initial throat  opening of a hook shall be measured and permanent  reference marks placed on each side of the hook throat opening.
   Hook load -bearing attachment holes shall be inspected, and their  dimensions recorded during initial inspection.
   For hooks having load -bearing holes, the hook manufacturer shall specify  the hole and pin diameter size to be used for attaching load -bearing fittings and the  permissible diametral clearance pass/fail criteria for pin and hole to be used during  hook inspectio n.
 Hooks with holes having cracks exceeding the manufacturer criteria  shall be repaired or replaced.
   Attachments such as handles and latch supports shall not be welded to a  finished hook in a field application.
 Note : If welding of attachments such as these is  necessary, it shall be done by the hook manufacturer before any required final heat  treatment, load test, and NDE.
   Before and after the hook initial proof -load test (before installation on the  crane), volumetric and surface ND E shall be performed on the hook and its shank,  shank threads, nut (including nut threads); or for pinned shank hooks, the attachment  pin IAW the NDE plan.
   For dual -reeved hoists, equalizer sheaves shall be self -aligning wi th the  load line.
   Load lines shall be attached to the crane by a rope termination method that  develops 100% of the rope strength with the exception of rope -to-drum attachments.
  Newly installed rope termination sockets shall be volumetrically a nd surface inspected  and certified before rope installation on the crane.
   Controls shall provide positive motion control at all times.
 No un - commanded motion shall be allowed, including drum reversal  during starting and  stopping.
   Controls shall be of the fail -safe “dead man” type.
   Cranes shall be provided with pushbutton or lever -type control switches for  controlling crane motion.
   Controls shall have an inching ( jog) capability when the speed selector  switch is in the slowest speed position.
   The controller(s) shall be capable of being adjusted for the desired amount  of acceleration and deceleration rates.
   Pendant control stations shall be  suspended by a strain relief chain or cable  to protect the electrical conductors from strain.
   The control station(s) shall be located so that the crane operator has direct  line of sight to the load at all times.
 If this is not possible, spott ers or assistant operators  shall have emergency stop capability at their location if inadvertent crane movement  could result in personnel injury or death.
 All overhead cranes and hoists shall be equipped with two  limit swit ches in the “up” direction to prevent “two blocking” and one limit switch in the  “down” direction to prevent a slack rope condition when unladen.
   The first “up” limit switch shall interrupt the movement control circuit and  shall be reset by re versing the movement control.
   The second “up” limit switch shall be a mechanical fail -safe switch that  will interrupt power to the hoist mechanism and require key -operated reset.
 The overhead crane bridge and trolley shall be  equipped with fail -safe brakes in both directions, designed IAW the stopping distance  requirements of CMAA 70/74 and ASME B30.
   All cranes and hoists shall be grounded and bonded to provide hardware  and personnel protection against electrical failures or lightning strikes.
   Grounding and bonding between trolley, bridge , and runway shall use  separate bonding conductors that may be run with electrical circuit conductors.
   In accordance with NFPA 70/NEC, the trolley frame and bridge frame shall  not be considered electrically grounded through the bridge and trol ley wheels and its  respective tracks.
   All new, reinstalled, altered, repaired, or modified cranes and hoists shall be  rated load tested to 125% (+0%, -5%) in accordance with ASME B30.
   Prior to, and after the rated load test, a full operational, no -load test shall be  performed to test full functionality of crane, in accordance with ASME 30.
   During rated load testing, the test weight shall be moved throughout the  complete operating envelope of the overhead crane or hoist system, stopping and  starting at various locations to verify smooth oper ation.
 The test weight shall be raised  to a sufficient height to ensure that each tooth of the lifting gear train is subjected to  the rated load.
   The te st weight shall be transported throughout the full length of the trolley  and bridge envelope.
   Cranes and hoists shall be inspected and tested, at a minimum, IAW the  requirements specified by OSHA, ASME, DAFMAN 91 -203, and/or per  manufacturer's recommendations.
   Before and after the crane and hoist rated load test, a complete functional  test of all control systems, safety devices, and warning indicators shall be performed.
   The test weight shall be hoisted approximately 2 fe et and suspended for a  minimum of 3 minutes to verify hoist drum rotation and test weight drift are within  acceptable limits.
   With the trolley located at the center of the bridge, the test weight shall be  raised to the maximum height and then l owered in three increments, stopping each time  to verify there is no un -commanded drum rotation or test weight lowering.
   The test weight shall be raised to sufficient height and at least one emergency  stop shall be made at the fastest lowering speed to verify that brake application is  positive and effective.
   Bridge, trolley, and hoists shall be tested at each specified speed, including  braking, bumping, and jogging.
   Bridge and trolley brakes shall be tested to verify th at they function in  accordance with CMAA 70 and 74 and ASME B30 series requirements.
   Before any crane operations, a full functional test of all cranes and hoists  shall be performed.
   Inspections and tests shall be performed by appo inted competent persons  or authorized persons.
, California), individuals shall identify the recognized certification  authority and expiration date of the certification authori ty.
   Following the load test, NDE shall be performed on crane and hoist SFPs  IAW the NDE plan.
 NDE is only  applicable to accessible parts of SFPs and shall only be surface NDE.
   Crane hooks shall be load tested and inspected by the manufacturer before  assembly on the hoist using the guidelines provided in ASME B30.
   After the initial proof -load test but before i nstallation on the hoist,  volumetric and surface NDE shall be performed on the hook and its shank, shank  threads, nut (including nut threads), or for pinned shank hooks, the attachment pin IAW  the NDE plan.
   Following the crane load test, hooks shall be inspected in accordance with  ASME methodology; NDE shall be performed on exposed portions of the hook IAW  the NDE plan.
   Hook throat opening and load -bearing attachment holes shall be inspected,  per the NDE plan, and throat and load -bearing hole measurements shall be taken and  recorded.
 Measurements and inspection results shall be compared to the  acceptance/rejection criteria in ASME B30.
 Hooks  exceeding the inspection criteria shall be repaired or repl aced.
 Crane and hoist data requirements shall be  submitted IAW A2.
3 , at the WR, cranes not on  VSFB exclusive federal jurisdiction property shall be inspected, tested, and certified IAW  the Cal -OSHA requirements.
 The seismic design of cranes,  craneways and support structures, and seismic loads calculations shall be IAW the  requirements in Chapter  17 of this volume a nd those listed below:   6.
   Seismic load calculations shall consider dynamic amplification effects and  the dynamic characteristics of the crane or hoist and its craneway and support structure.
   Provisions shall be made to prevent the cran e bridge and trolley(s) from  “jumping” their rail anywhere along the track, during a seismic event.
   Seismic load calculations used for critical cranes shall ensure that the design  and construction of the crane or hoist shall remain in place and  support the critical load  during and after a seismic event.
   Lever type sw itches shall be provided with a positive latch that, in the  off position, prevents the handle from being inadvertently moved to the on position.
   All control panels shall have  a lockout feature such as a keyed switch  to prevent unauthorized operation.
   Control stations shall have the built -in capability to test the integrity of  all indicator lamps and aural/visual warning devices.
 Emergency stop capability from all emergency stop  control stations shall be retained.
  When the transmitter and receiver shut down, the brakes on the crane shall be set  and the crane controls will be placed into a safe mode.
 Drive controls shall be capable of selecting incremen ts of motion  between 2 to 100 millimeters and drive speed selectability of 1% to 99% of full speed.
 Controls shall have the capability to detect slack rope on lift to prevent  shock load during lift train tensioning.
 Controls shall have the ability for real time monitoring  of the wire rope and angle to detect unbalanced loads or a possible load snag.
 A control system shall allow for automatic repositioning of trolley and bridge  over the load to prevent side loading.
 A control system shall allow for real time  monitoring of parameters and status of all drives (speed, torque, current, temperature, etc.
   For hard -to-acces s cranes, an operator control interface shall have the capability to  troubleshoot and reset faults remotely (without the need to climb up on the crane to diagnose  issues).
 It shall allow an operator to remotely modify drive parameters, log fault/alarm/runt ime  events (cycles, speeds, load lift history), and signal when preventative maintenance and  inspections are due.
   Emergency stop controls shall be hard -wired.
   Hoists shall be designed with an adjustable hoist overload detection  device.
 When triggered, the device shall activate an overload indicator light and  overload indicator horn and shut down the hoist, requiring key -operated reset.
 The  device shall be capable of being overridden to enable the load test.
 A keyed override  switch shall be provided.
   Hoists control panels shall be instrumented with a load readout.
 A load   tare out button shall be provided to enable resetting the readout to zero with rigging  on the hook.
   Powered hoists shall have dual fault tolerant braking systems.
   The overspeed device shall be located so that it monitors drum rotation  irrespective of a single failure in the drive train.
   The braking system shall be capable of braking and holding at least  150% of torque exerted by full rated load on the hook.
   The braking system shall be activated by the emergency stop button.
   The dual fault tolerant braking system shall be capable of being tested  in place.
   The application of multiple braking systems shall be synch ronized to  minimize shock loading.
   Brake systems shall be fail -safe; in other words, the brakes shall be  applied automatically when power is removed.
   The dual fault tolerant braking system shall be equipped with a  limit switch and control panel indicator light that comes on when the brake is  fully released.
   The hoist shall be equipped with an uncommanded motion sensor to  detect differences  in speed ratio between the drum and the hoist motor.
 If  uncommanded motion is sensed, all braking systems and audio and visual warning  devices shall be activated.
 For pneumatic emergency  brake fail -safe systems, redundant solenoid dump valves shall be used.
 An electrical  switch that enables independ ent testing of these dump valves shall be provided.
 No  lubricants, such as oil, shall be introduced into the pneumatic system without first  performing a chemical compatibility analysis.
 A torque - proving system shall be provided for all hoist drives and motors to en sure that the  hoist holding brakes are not released until the motor has been verified for its ability  to energize.
 If micro -drive motor systems with non -fail-safe clutches are used, this  torque -proving system shall be designed not to release the hoist brak es until the  system has verified positive clutch engagement.
 The torque -proving system shall  be designed to eliminate any undesirable hook jump.
 Hoisting mechanisms shall have a fail - safe capability for emergenc y lowering of the load and moving the bridge and trolley  in the event of a power failure or hoist drive mechanism malfunction.
   Provision shall be made for emergency lowering of the critical load by an alternative means  of  operation of the brakes.
 The alternative release mechanisms shall permit control of the braking  torque and shall also provide the ability to restore the “brake set” condition promptly, allowing  the operators to control the lowering speed.
 Crane computer hardware and software shall be designed and  tested IAW applicable requirements in Chapter  16 and/or applicable industry  standards .
 Where feasible, a diagnostic port shall be provided on the crane control panel  to enable downloading of programmable logic controller (PLC) data.
   Software documentation shall include a ladder -logic diagram, or  flowchart logic diagram.
   Changes to software shall be well documented, to show traceability of  requirements, item changed, and rationale.
   The software shall be subject to configuration control.
   The hoist block shall be positively grounded through a separate  insulated grounding cable synchronized with the hoist operation.
 Maximum  resistance to crane ground shall not exceed 5 ohms (5 Ω).
   Hooks shall have a grounding lug.
   Hooks shall be isolated from the crane to a minimum resistance of 1  megaohm (1 MΩ) as measured with a 500 volt DC resistance tester.
   Impedance testing shall be completed within one year of intended use.
   Overhead cranes and hoists shall be capable of operating with a  minimum 5 -degree hoist offset angle, normal to the drum axis, without the load line  contacting any structural member or obstructions and without the rope being pulled  out of the drum or sheave grooves.
   Cranes shall be dual reeved with all load lines terminated at an  equalizer bar and drum(s).
 The equalizer system shall have the means to allow  movement of the system to level the block.
   Cranes shall be re eved with one right -lay rope and one left -lay rope to  cancel the load block rotation tendency.
   At least two wraps of the rope shall remain on the drum at the lower  limit of lift.
   All overhead cranes and hoists shall be equipped with a means (such  as a level -wind device) for preventing the load line from coming out of the drum  groove and overwrapping itself on the drum.
   Vertical load displacement following a rope failure shall be minimized.
  This vertical load displacement shall be calculated, and the analysis subm itted.
 The  design of the rope reeving system shall be such that a single rope failure will not  result in the loss of the lifted load.
   In the event of one broken rope, the remaining intact reeving system  shall not be loaded to more than 40% of the breaking strength of the remaining  intact wire rope, including the dynamic and seismic loading effect s of the load  transfer.
   Ropes shall be attached to the drum with a minimum of two clamps  each.
 Clamp bolts shall be properly torqued.
   Provisions shall be made to support the drum, to prevent  disengagement of the drum gearing, a nd to prevent disengagement of the drum from  its emergency brake in the event of drum shaft, drum hub, shaft bearing, or bearing  support failure.
   All cranes and hoists used in hazardous envir onments shall be designed  in accordance with NEC Article 501, Class I Locations  and NFPA.
   Runway systems for overhead cranes bridges and trolleys shall be  provided with non -sparking cable feed systems (festoon cable or double shoe - sliding con tactors) for supplying power to the bridge cranes.
   Structural and mechanical parts shall not cause sparks during normal  operation; sparks caused by emergency braking shall be prevented from falling into  the work areas below.
   All unique cranes such as torus, polar, straddle, and winches used as  hoists not covered in this document shall be justified to and approved by Range  Safety on a case -by-case basis.
   Multiple cranes operating on the same runway or parallel cranes 34 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   operating on different runways shall be equipped with an anti -collision system.
   For those bridge cranes designed for intentional side p ulls or for  bridge cranes used in tandem crane operations where horizontal forces will be  exerted on the crane because of angular pulls, special features shall be  incorporated to prevent sliding of the crane bridge/trolley as a result of the  horizontal for ces applied and to shut down the hoist if the maximum side pull  angle has been exceeded.
   Specialized bridge crane design shall ensure the trolley remains  stable (no potential danger of tip over due to the horizontal compo nent of the  resulting force) under worst case loading conditions.
 Stationary cranes (for example, jib, tower, portal, pillar,  hammerhead cranes and derricks) used to handle critical hardware shall comply with  applicable ASME  standards and be submitted for review and approval to Range Safety  on a case -by-case basis.
 Portal and pedestal cranes used to handle  critical hardware shall be designed and tested in accordance with ASME B30.
   Range users utilizing mobile cranes shall submit a data package to  Range Safety for review and approval that provides evidence that the mobile crane  meets the following requirements:   6.
   A reeving diagram shall be provided for each crane.
   If the mobile crane can go into a limp or reduced power mode as a  result of the diesel particulate filter (DPF) regeneration cycle, the regeneration  cycle shall be bypassed prior to and for the duration of a critical lift.
 If the bypass  feature is not provided on the crane, then the crane regeneration cycles shall be  recorded and tracked to ensure the crane does not go into a regeneration cycle for  the duration of a critical lift.
   Nonconductive rigging shall be used between the crane hook and the  load for those mobi le and field cranes not equipped with isolated hooks, when used  for critical lifts.
   An emergency load lowering plan shall be developed and submitted  to Range Safety for review and approval for mobile and field cranes not equipped  with emerge ncy load lowering capability, when used for critical lifts.
 Winches used to handle critical hardware shall be designed and  tested in accordance with ASME B30.
   All requirements shall be verified via inspection and test.
 Any test  anomaly shall be evaluated by Range Safety as a cause for rejection.
   The Range User shall prepare verification plans and procedures for  Range Safety review and approval.
   The initial inspection and test shall include the following:   6.
 The test weight shall be  raised to sufficient height and at least one emergency stop shall be made at the  110% lowering speed to verify that bra ke application meets specification  requirements.
   The hoist emergency load lowering system shall be tested to  verify that it is fail -safe and functions properly.
 The load shall be lowered a  minimum of 2 feet.
   The hoist overlo ad detection devices shall be tested to verify that  they activate when the test weight is greater than 110% of rated capacity.
   The un -commanded motion and load slippage detection system  shall be tested for proper activation to ensure that t he load does not slip and/or  stops within the specified distance.
 If the crane is equipped with a non -fail-safe  creep speed, electrically operated clutch, a test that simulates clutch failure to  engage (mechanical failure with coil energized) and clutch el ectrical failure  during hoisting shall be performed.
 Maximum load drop shall be measured to  ensure that it is within specifications and the detection system performs  properly.
 For cranes equipped with non -fail-safe electrical creep speed clutches,  this tes t shall be performed by simulating a mechanical and electrical clutch  failure.
   For special purpose cranes designed for side angle pulls, the  bridge brakes, trolley brakes, and special devices, such as the rail clamps and  side angle pull limit switches, shall be tested at the maximum side pull angle to  ensure proper function.
   The manual means to move the trolley and bridge when power is  off shall be tested and verified.
 Analyses and data requirements for  cranes and hoists used to handle critical hardware and used in hazardous environments  shall be subm itted IAW paragraph  A2.
   Analysis shall be conducted and provided as part of the Operating and  Support Hazard Analysis (O&SHA) requiremen ts as specified in SSCMAN 91 -710  Volume 1, Attachment 3, and SSCMAN 91 -710 Volume 6, Attachment 2.
   A failure mode effects and criticality analysis (FMECA) shall be performed  IAW industry standards.
   The FMECA shall identify failure  conditions that could result in  personnel injury, loss of load, or damage to critical hardware.
   The FMECA shall encompass the complete power and control  circuitry as well as the load path from hook to structure.
   SFP components,  SFP welds, and SFP modes shall be documented for SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  37  tracking to elimination or acceptance.
 Analyses and  data requirements for existing RPIE cranes and hoists used to handle critical hardware and  used in hazardous environments shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   For existing RPIE which do not have the required design safety information, the  cranes and hoists shall undergo safety and reliability studies, including single failure points  (SFP) analysis, recommended NDE plan, and existing condition assessment in accor dance  with CMAA 70/74, ASME B30.
   An assessment shall be conducted on all subsystems, but not limited to, structural  infrastructure, mechanical, electrical, and control systems.
   A FMECA shall be performed in accordance with industry standards and  meet the requirements of paragraphs  6.
   Assessment findings and risk mitigation recommendations shall be  submitted to Range Safety for review and approval.
   Safety factors for the design of platforms shall be consistent with those of the  overall structures on which they are permanently moun ted.
 In no case shall the safety  factors be less than that of the overall structure, the applicable national consensus standard  AISC, the Aluminum Association, or a yield factor of safety of 2, whichever is greater.
   Hinges, attaching points, and other high stress or abuse prone components and  their interface hardware shall be designed with a yield factor of safety of at least 3.
 Yield  strength shall be less than or equal to 85% of ultimate strength or the ultimate factor of  safety shall be 5.
  The greater of (1) a minimum of 60 pounds per square foot or (2) 300 pounds per  occupant shall be used for the uniformly distributed live load.
   A minimum of 2,000 pounds shall be used for concentrated loading (point  loading).
   Guardrail systems and toe boards shall be provided and designed in accordance  with 29 CFR 1910.
  Personnel platforms shall have a means of positive mechanical restraint when in  the open, raised, folded back, or use position to prevent unintentional movement.
 Bolting  shall not be acceptable.
 Latches, levers, tethered pins shall be used.
   Movable platform structures shall be grounded with the bonding conductor size  IAW the NEC Article 250 -102, Bonding Jumpers .
   All platforms shall be clearly ma rked with 2 -inch letters minimum indicating  maximum load capacity.
   The following information shall be imprinted on a metal tag attached to the  platform:   6.
 At a minimum, the following tests shall be performed:   6.
   All new, repaired, or modified platforms shall be load tested to 125% of their rated  capacity b efore initial use.
   After the proof load test, volumetric NDE testing shall be performed on all SPF  components and welds IAW the Range Safety approved NDE plan.
   Certification and load testing of man -rated b askets used with cranes  shall be in accordance with 29 CFR 1926.
 Lift fittings such as  lugs and plates permanently attached to flight hardware shall be designed so that the loss of  one fitting and/or s tructure will not result in the dropping of the load.
 If this requirement cannot  be met, the minimum ultimate factor of safety shall be 1.
 At a minimum,  the following tests shall be performed on permanently attached flight hardware lift fittings  prior to their first operational use at the Ranges:   6.
   Lift fittings shall be load tested to 100% of limit load as an integral part of  structural load testing.
   After the load test, volumetric and surface NDE testing shall be performed on all  lift fitting SFP components and SFP welds.
 Data requirements for  flight hardware used to lift critical loads shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   Systems shall be designed to ensure that personnel are not exposed to hazardous noise  levels in accordance with AFI 48 -127, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation  Program , for Department of the AF programs and 29 CFR 1910.
 In all cases, noise shall be at the lowest  practical levels.
   Where total protection is not possible through the design process, hearing protection  and/or access controls shall be used.
   Workspace no ise shall be reduced to levels that permit necessary direct person -to- person and telephone communication.
   Bioenvironmental Engineering shall evaluate noise levels and determine the hazard  potential.
   Acoustic data requirements shall be submitted IAW  Attachment  2, A2.
   EMFR emitters shall be designed to ensure that personnel are not exposed to  hazardous energy levels in accordance with ANSI/Institute of Electrical and Electronics  Engineers (IEEE) C95.
   Where total protection is not possible through the design process, clearance areas  and access controls  shall be established.
   The Range User shall contact the Installation Radiation Safety Officer (IRSO) and  provide EMFR system design data for use in evaluation and approval of the EMFR system.
  The IRSO shall evaluate EMFR levels and determine the hazard potential for personnel.
   EMFR emitters shall be designed and located to allow test and checkout  without presenting a hazard to personnel, ordnance, or other  electronic equipment.
   Where necessary, safety devices shall be provided to protect operating  personnel and exposed initiators during ground operations.
   No ground -based EMFR system shall be installed, erected, relocated, or  modified without site plan approval from Range Safety and the IRSO.
   Fail-safe s ystems shall be incorporated so that inadvertent operation of any  hazardous EMFR emitting system is prevented.
   Electro -explosive subsystems shall not be exposed to EMFR that is capable  of firing the electro -explosive device (EED) by pin -to-pin bridgewire heating or pin - to-case arcing.
   EMFR power at the EED shall not exceed 20 dB below the pin -to-pin direct  current (DC) no -fire power of EED.
   The siting of ground -based EMFR emitters in proximity to electro -explosive  subsystems shall be IAW Table 2 -5.
   The effect of payload and launch vehicle system emitters on their own  electro -explosive subsystem shall be evaluated by analysis or electromagnetic  compatibility (EMC) testing.
   All EMFR emitters shall have their hazard area verified by the IRSO or a  designated representative before the first operation and/or test.
   Safety features shall be tested and verified by the Range User before coming to  the ranges.
   Test plans shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and approval.
   Test results shall be submitted to Range Safety.
 Site plans shall be submitted to Range Safety and the IRSO for al l  ground -based EMFR transmitters.
 The EMFR emitter design and test data  requirements shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   Laser systems shall be designed to ensure that personnel are not exposed to  hazardous emissions IAW the requirements of ANSI Z136.
   Where total protection against exposure is not possible through the design proces s,  clearance areas and access controls shall be established.
   The Range User shall provide laser design data for all Class 1M, 2M, 3B and 4  lasers.
   Laser platforms shall comply with the requirements for mechanical ground  support equipment used to handle critical hardwa re as described in Chapter  6.
   Laser system mounts installed on moving or airborne vehicles shall be designed  to compensate for the motion of the vehicle.
   Heating effec ts on unprotected laser platforms shall be considered when siting and  setting elevation and azimuth stops.
   Hazardous materials used in laser systems shall meet the ground support  requirements of Chapter  10.
   Laser systems with pressurized subsystems such as cryogenic fluids shall meet the  requirements of Chapter  11.
   Electrical ground systems used in laser systems shall meet the requirement of  Chapter  14.
   The Range User shall contact Range Safety and the Installation Laser Safety  Officer (ILSO) for hazard area verification before first operation and test.
   Safety features shall be verified before coming to the ranges.
   Test plans and test  results shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and  approval.
   Laser system data requirements shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2,  A2.
 Analysis and supporting data outlining possible laser  system failures for all phases of laser system uses shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2,  A2.
 Biophysiological data requirements shall be submitte d  IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   Radioactive systems shall conform to the requirements specified in 10 CFR, Energy , 49  CFR, Transportation , AFI 40 -201, and DAFMAN 91 -110, Nuclear Safety Review and Launch  Approval for Space or Missi le Use of Radioactive Material .
   Radioactive sources shall be designed to prevent the release of radioactive material.
   Radioactive sources shall incorporate shielding in the design to ensure minimum  exposure to personnel.
 Where total protect ion from radiation exposure by use of shielding is  not feasible, access controls shall be used.
   Radiation hazard warning signs and/or labels shall be fixed to the container or housing  as directed by the IRSO.
   High voltage sources shall be e valuated to determine their capability of producing X - rays.
   High voltage sources shall be properly shielded and shall use interlocks on cabinet doors  to interrupt power when a door is open.
   Control measures for flight systems shall be handl ed on a case -by-case basis.
   Range Users shall comply with requirements in Air Force Environmental Policy and  the National Environmental Policy Act, and provide compliance documentation to the IRSO  on the ER and/or the Radiation Safety Committee on the WR.
   Application for Department of the Air Force permits shall be submitted in accordance  with AFI 40 -201 and any Space Launch Delta Supplements/Instructions.
   The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) license holder or Range User shall su bmit  3 copies of the NRC license with the Department of the Air Force permit to the IRSO and  Range Safety at least 90 calendar days before planned entry to the range.
   Radioactive sources shall be handled under the supervision of the designated Range  User or the Radiation Protection Officer named on the NRC license, state license, or  Department of the A ir Force permit as described in AFI 40 -201.
 Range Users shall brief the Radiation Safety  Committee on the hazards and  procedures concerning the handling of radioactive sources and  shall comply with any unique requirements of AFI 40 -201, and any Space Launch Delta  Supplements/Instructions.
   The Safety Analysis Summary (SAS) and Radiation Protection Plan shall be s ubmitted  at least 180 calendar days before launch.
1 , radioactive materials carried on launch vehicles  and payloads shall meet the following requirements:   9.
   Radioactive materials carried aboard launch ve hicles and payloads shall comply  with DAFMAN 91 -110 public safety launch risk constraints.
   Radioactive materials carried aboard launch vehicles and payloads shall be  compatible with and have no adverse safety effects on ordnance items, propellant s, high  pressure systems, critical structural components, or FTSs.
   Radioactive materials carried aboard launch vehicles and payloads shall be  designed so that they may be installed as late in the countdown as possible, particularly if  personnel w ill be required to work within the system -controlled radiation area (as defined  in AFI 40 -201, and any Space Launch Delta Supplements/Instructions) while performing  other tasks on the launch vehicle and/or payload.
   To launch radioactive materials from SSC ranges, adequate tests shall be  performed to characterize the survivability of the radioactive materials and any  containment system, in the launch, abort, and destruct environments.
 Range Users shall  also describe the risk of any release of radioactive materials and potential contamination  from these environments and provide the information to Range Safety.
   Range Safety shall approve test plans, analyses, and results in accordance  with MSPSP timelines described above in paragraph  4.
   Range Users shall perform and document the results of radiation surveys of  their radioactive sources before coming to the ranges.
   Range Users shall coordinate and allow an initial radiation survey to be  performed by the IRSO the first time the source is delivered to the ranges.
 Follow -on  surveys may be required by the IRSO and shall be coordinated and allowed.
   Safeguards, such as int erlocks and leak tests, shall be tested and verified by  the Range User before bringing a radiation source to the ranges.
   Range Users contemplating launch of any radioactive source shall comply with  DAFMAN 91 -110, and any Space Launch Delta Supplements/Instructions.
   All Range Users proposing to use major radioactive sources shall comply with  National Security Presidential Memorandum #20 (NSPM -20), dated 20 August 2019,  Launch of Spacecraft Containing Space Nuclear Systems .
 In some situations, such as using a new launch vehicle, the data may not be  avail able from the sources and shall be obtained by analysis and test following the  requirements described in SSCMAN 91 -710 Volume 2 and through discussions with Range   Safety.
 Radioactive sources l aunch  approval data requirements shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2, A2.
  Radiation producing equipment, devices, and/or reactor data requirements shall be submitted  IAW Attachment  2, A2.
 The least flammable material  that meets design requirements while minimizing potential ignition sources and fire  propagation paths shall be used.
   If more  than one material satisfies the performance requirement, the least toxic  material shall be used.
   Materials that will not give off a toxic gas if ignited shall be used  wherever/whenever possible.
 If co ntact of material with a non -compatible  material can cause a critical or catastrophic hazard, the hazard shall be mitigated to a level  acceptable to Range Safety.
 Hazardous materials shall not retain a  static charge that presents an ignition source to ordnance or propellants or a shock hazard to  personnel.
 Material properties shall be determined  by test processes defined in this paragraph or be selected from Range Safety approved material  databases.
   Plastic materials that may pose a hazard because of compatibility or  toxicity shall  be tested IAW the requirements described in Kennedy Documented Procedure (KDP) - KSC -P-6001, KSC Materials and Processes Control Program .
   Plastic materials that may pose a hazard because of flammability shall be tested  IAW requirem ents described in NASA -STD -6001, Flammability, Odor, Offgassing, and  Compatibility Requirements and Test Procedures for Materials in Environments that  Support Combustion .
   Plastic materials that may pose a hazard because of electrostatic discharg e shall  be tested IAW the requirements described in KSC/Report MMA -1985 -79, Standard Test  Method for Evaluating Triboelectric Charge Generation and Decay .
   Plastic materials that may pose a hazard because of hypergolic  ignition/breakthrough shall  be tested IAW the procedures described in KSC/MTB -175-88,  Procedure for Casual Exposure of Materials to Hypergolic Fluids .
   The results of these tests shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and  approval, based on use.
   Toxicity, reactivity, compatibility, flammability and/or combustibility testing  requirements shall be determined by Range Safety on a case -by-case basis.
   Testing shall consider the following material characteristics:   10.
   Range User business plans shall  comply with the range Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) Plan.
   Hazardous material data requirem ents shall be  submitted IAW Attachment  2, A2.
  Range Users shall comply with 29 CFR 1910.
 Tenant organizations and commercial companies that  have operational control over a PSM covered process shall provide representation on the SLD  45 PSM team.
   Pressure and vacuum systems shall be designed IAW a ccepted national industry  standards such as NFPA, Underwriters Laboratory (UL), American Petroleum Institute (API),  ASME, Department of Transportation (DOT), T.
   Pressure shall not exceed 15 psig.
   The system shall be designed, maintained, and operated in accordance with API  620, Recommended Rules for Design and C onstruction of Large, Welded Low Pressure  Storage Tanks , and applicable Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and OSHA  requirements.
   The requirements for operating hazardous pressure systems found in SSCMAN 91 - 710 Volume 6 shall be taken into cons ideration in the design and testing of these systems.
 All pressure system  components shall operate safely and reliably during their intended period of service  (service life).
 Components shall not fail at operating conditions in a time period that is four  times the service life of the components.
   Permanently installed pressure vessels shall be designed to have a service  life of at least 20 years.
   Other components shall be designed to have a service life of not less than  5,000 cycles.
,  applicable code does not exist), the minimum safety factor for the component shall be 4,  or burst shall be 4 times maximum allowable working pressure (MAWP).
   Ground support pressure systems shall be designed to ensure that no single  failure (component fails to function or human operator error) can result in serious injury  and/or loss of life.
   Single -fault (failure) tolerant systems shall h ave at least two, Range Safety  approved, independent and verifiable inhibits in place during all periods when the  potential for serious injury and/or death exists.
   Materials shall be compatible throughout their intended service life with  the service fluids and the materials such as supports, anchors, and clamps used in  construction and installation of tankage, piping, and components as well as nonmetalli c  items such as gaskets, seals, packing, seats, and lubricants.
   At a minimum, material compatibility shall be determined in regard to the  following criteria: permeability, flammability, ignition and combustion, functional and  material degradat ion, contamination, toxicity, pressure and temperature extremes,  shock, oxidation, and corrosion.
   Brittle materials shall not be used for pressure system components.
 The nil - ductility transition temperature of materials shall be below the serv ice temperatures.
   Materials that could come in contact with fluid from a ruptured or leaky  tank, pipe, or other components that store or transfer hazardous fluids shall be  compatible with the fluid so that they do not create a flammable, combustible, or toxic  hazard.
   Compatible materials selection shall be o btained from one of the following  sources:   11.
   Materials shall be tested for compatibility if data does not e xist.
   If compatibility testing is performed, the test plan shall be submitted  to Range Safety for review and approval.
 A compatibility analysis containing the following  information shall be prepared:   11.
   Metallic components for pressure vessels, pipes, valves, and fittings shall  be fabricated from low carbon stainless steel or other alloys that provide adequate  strength, corrosion resistance, and material compatibility.
 Materials shall be traceable  to an industry standard suc h as ASME, ANSI, Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE),  DOT/FAA/AR -MMPDS, Metallic Materials Properties Development and  Standardization (MMPDS) Handbook , etc.
 As a minimum, the following potentially critical areas shall be evaluated and  appropriately protected:   Table 11.
   Carbon steel surfaces exposed to atmospheric corrosion shall be protected  by the application of zinc coatings (inorganic zinc or hot dip galvanizing) or equivalent  means.
   Stainless steel surfaces exposed to rocket engine exhaust impingement or   acid deposits from solid rocket motor exhaust shall be coated with inhibitive polyamide  epoxy primer and aliphatic polyurethane topcoat in accordance with NASA -STD - 5008B.
 Exterior stainless steel surfaces  in the launch environment exposed to rocket engine exhaust, elevated temperatures,  hypergolic propellant, or acid deposition from solid booster exhaust shall be coated 54 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   with inhi bitive polyamide epoxy primer and aliphatic polyurethane topcoat in  accordance with NASA -STD -5008B.
   Underground vessels and piping shall be coated with a coal -tar epoxy  coating (or equivalent) and galvanically protected.
   All under ground systems shall be cathodically protected and designed so  that periodic checks of the protection can be obtained.
   Dissimilar metals shall be protected through mutual isolation.
   All underground metallic systems shall be protec ted against corrosion by  cathodic protection.
 Cathodic protection systems (sacrificial or DC power) shall be  designed so that a periodic check of the system can be obtained.
  To avoid a hazardous failure, adequate levels of contamination control shall  be established by relating the cleanliness requirements to the actual needs and nature  of the system and components.
   Materials and fluids  used in the design shall be selected to reduce internally  generated contamination caused by rate of wear, friction, and fluid decomposition.
   Systems shall have acceptable contamination tolerance levels.
 The  tolerance level of the system and/o r components shall be based on considerations of  the overall functional requirements and service life.
   The system shall be designed to verify, through sampling, that the lines and  components are clean after flushing and purging of the system.
   Each component or section of a system shall be cleaned to the appropriate  level before installation.
 Immediately following cleaning, all components or sections  of a system shall be protected to prevent contamination.
   Equipment des igned to be cleaned or re -cleaned in place without  significant disassembly shall be provided with high point bleeds and low point drains  to facilitate introduction and removal of cleaning fluid.
   Filters shall be installed immediately downstrea m of all interfaces where  control of particulate matter is critical and at other appropriate points as required to  control particulate migration.
   Filter design shall permit easy servicing and ready accessibility.
 All  hazardous pressure system components shall be identified as to function, content,  applicable hazard, and, if applicable, direction of flow.
 The marking and identification shall  be accomplished by some mea ns that cannot cause “stress concentration” or otherwise  reduce the integrity of the system.
   Fixed pressure vessels shall be code stamped IAW the ASME Boiler  and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Rules for Construction of  Pressure Vessels, or ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII,  Division 2, Alternative Rules – Rules fo r Construction of Pressure Vessels.
   The maximum pressure at which fixed pressure vessels shall be  normally operated and the name of the working fluid shall be painted in a  conspicuous location on the vessel facing the roadway approach, if po ssible.
 This  additional labeling shall be legible at a distance of 50 feet under clear daytime  conditions.
   Portable and mobile pressure vessels shall be marked IAW the applicable  DOT specifications.
   Individual lengths or fabricate d assemblies of pipe and tubing shall be  identified with part number and/or contractor tracking number, pipe or tube size,  schedule number or wall thickness, test pressure, and the date of hydrostatic and/or  pneumatic test.
 Identification data shall be aff ixed to fabricated assemblies by means  of an attached stainless steel band or “dog tag” that has been stamped or  electrochemically etched.
   Fixed ground support piping and tubing runs external to regulation and  control panels and consoles shall  be identified and marked with commodity, maximum  operating pressure (MOP), flow direction, and applicable hazards, warnings, and  symbols.
   All RPIE shall be identified in accordance with MIL -STD -101C, Color  Code for Pipelines and for Compresse d Gas Cylinders  or equivalent.
   Shutoff and metering valves, pressure relief valves, regulators, gauges,  quick disconnect ground half couplings, and filters shall have the following information  permanently attached to the body by stamping, engr aving, tagging, or other means:   11.
   All manual pressure system regulation and control panels and consoles  shall be clearly marked with a flow schematic, operating parameters, and component  identification.
   The system shall be designed or marked to prevent incorrect installation of  filters.
   Flexible hoses shall be provided with an identification tag that is  permanently and legibly marked with the following information:   11.
   An identification tag that is permanently and legibly marked with the  month and year of the most recent set pressure calibration shall be attached to the relief  valve.
 All pressure  systems shall be properly bonded and grounded to provide the following.
   Any single joint measurement shall exhibit a DC resistance of 1 ohm (1 Ω)  or less.
   DC resistance from any point in the piping and tubing system to the nearest  earth electrode ground plate shall be 1 ohm (1 Ω) or less.
   A low -impedance path to earth shall be provided for electrical currents  resulting from lightning discharges or electrical power system faults to minimize  abnormal voltage rises that might injure personnel or damage equipment.
   A discharge path shall be provided between distribution piping and tubing  and earth to prevent the buildup of static electric ity.
   For flammable or combustible commodities, piping and tubing shall be  bonded to ground at the end termination and at intervals of not more than 100 feet.
   Non-flammable and non -combustible pressure system piping and tubing  shall be bonded to ground at the end terminations and at intervals of not more than 300  feet.
 In  addition, the  bolts and nuts shall be equipped with serrated or spring washers to maintain tightness.
   All mobile equipment shall be e quipped for connection to bonding and  grounding stations at fixed facility transfer apron areas.
   Grounds shall be provided for propellant loading systems (flight  propulsion systems or ground propellant tanks) to allow for common grounding and   bonding during propellant transfer operations.
   The use of interconnecting dissimilar ground metals that could lead to  increased resistance due to galvanic corrosion over a relatively short time period shall  be avoided.
 Pressure systems shall be designed to provide adequate accessibility, clearance,  and operating safety.
   Hypergolic system design shall take into consideration the limitations  imposed on individuals dressed in Self -Contained Atmospheric Protective Ensemble  (SCAPE) suits or Propellant Handlers Ensemble (PHE).
   All components and piping shall be loc ated so they are readily accessible  for maintenance, inspection, and calibration.
 All piping shall be located to preclude a  hazard to personnel (tripping or head injury).
   Tubing shall be located and protected so that damage cannot occur due to   being stepped on, used as handholds, or by manipulation of tools during maintenance.
   Pressure lines shall clear all structures, components, and other lines by not  less than 1/4 inch under the most adverse conditions of service to ensure that abrasive  chafing does not occur.
   Piping, tubing, and other components shall be routed or located to provide  protection from other operational hazards, including moveable equipment.
 Where such  exposure is unavoidable, safeguards that minimize t he effects of such exposure shall  be incorporated in the design.
   Maximum spacing shall be provided between oxidizer and fuel lines to  preclude mixing and combustion.
 A minimum of 24 inches shall be provided.
   Pipes containing liqui ds shall not be attached or secured to electrical lines  or conduit.
   A 2-inch space shall be maintained between electrical conduits and  pressure lines.
   Vent outlets shall be located far enough away from incompatible propellant  systems and incompatible materials to ensure that no contact is made during vent  operations.
   System connections for incompatible propellants shall be keyed, sized, or  located so that it is physically impossible to interconnect them.
   Safety relief valves and burst diaphragms shall be located so that their  discharge is directed away from personnel or safety critical equipment to prevent injury  to personnel or damage to safety critical equipment.
 If this requirement cannot be met,  safet y valves and burst diaphragms shall be equipped with deflection devices.
  Consideration shall be given to minimizing the noise hazard of high pressure venting.
   Vent lines for flammable and combustible vapors, toxic gases, and gas  streams that may be contaminated with toxic vapors shall be extended away from work  areas to prevent accidental ignition of vapors and/or injury to personnel.
   Pipe routing shall not block personnel egress routes.
   Pressure systems shall be de signed so that the operator is not required to  leave the operating control station to monitor the hazard level of that system.
   Valves carrying hazardous liquids shall not be located overhead in the  area of an operating station.
   Manually operated liquid valves shall be located to permit operation from  the side or above to prevent spillage of service fluid on the operator due to leak or  failure of the valve seals.
   For systems with failure modes that could result in a time-critical  emergency, provision shall be made for automatic switching to a safe mode of  operation.
 Caution and warning signals shall be provided for these time -critical  functions.
   Pressure systems shall be designed so that removal and repl acement of  tubing can be accomplished with minimal removal of other system components.
   Systems shall be designed with accessibility to perform end -to-end static  ground system checks.
   Pipes containing hazardous liquids shall be r outed with a continuous  downward slope to prevent the accumulation of trapped liquid fluids and allow draining  of the lines.
   Where possible, pipes carrying hazardous liquids shall be mounted so that  the liquid cannot be trapped in internal cavities when it is drained.
   High pressure lines and components shall be protected from damage due  to leakage, servicing, or ot her operational hazards created by other systems.
   Redundant legs (branches) of a safety pressure system shall be physically  separated and protected so that a single event such as damage, fire, or an explosion  cannot cause both redundant legs to fail.
   Components shall be located and lines routed to minimize the risk of  ignition should a leak or rupture occur.
   Pressure lines shall not be installed inside conduit, large pipe, or tubing  for protective support.
   System components such as a hand regulator and gauge that are closely  related shall be arranged to allow operat ion and surveillance from a common point.
   Ground support pressure systems shall be designed in accordance with applicable  national consensus standards and the requirements con tained in this chapter.
   Propellant systems shall be designed to ensure separation of fuels and oxidizers  to prevent the inadvertent mixing of propellants during operations.
   All calibration adjustments shall be designed so that the setting, position, or  adjustment cannot be inadvertently altered.
   All permanently installed pressure vessels shall be designed, constr ucted,  tested, certified, and code stamped IAW the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code,  Section VIII, Division 1 or Division 2.
   All ASME code stamped vessels shall be registered with the National  Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel inspectors .
   The following additional design, fabrication, and inspection requirements  shall also be met:   11.
   Pressure vessels shall be designed with an opening for inspection  purposes.
   Pressure retaining welds, including all sh ell, head nozzle, and nozzle - to-head or shell welds, shall be inspected using volumetric and surface NDE  techniques.
   At a minimum, all attachment welds such as supports, lugs, pads, and  nameplates shall be inspected using surface NDE techniq ues.
   Welded attachments such as stiffening rings or supports shall be  welded with a continuous weld bead.
   Welded and bolted attachments such as piping, gussets, ladders, and  platforms to the pressure vessel should be minimized  and the design shall be  approved by Range Safety.
   External and internal surfaces of vessels shall be free of crevices and  other areas that can trap moisture or contaminants.
   All attachments shall be positioned so that no atta chment weld will  overlap any category A or B weld as defined by ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel  Code, Section VIII, Division 1 or Division 2.
   SA514, SA517, or other alloys with substantially the same properties  as T-1 steel shall not be used  for pressure vessels that are fabricated by welding.
   Fixed pressure vessels exposed to the atmosphere and wind shall be  designed to withstand the maximum expected external loading as determined by  analysis.
 The analysis shall be conducted IAW  American Society of Civil Engineers 60 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   (ASCE)/Structural Engineering Institute (SEI) 7, Minimum Design Loads and  Associated Criteria for Buildings and Other Structures , and L.
   Pressure vessel supports shall be designed IAW good structural practice  and local requirements for wind or seismic loads.
   Consideration shall be given to anchor bolt design capability for hold down  in the event of a deluge water filled bay (buoyant force of vessel), if applicable.
   One of the two supports of a fixed vessel shall be capable of providing for  expansion and contraction of the vessel.
   All underground hazardous waste tanks and ancillary piping shall comply  with the requirements in 40 CFR 264.
193, Containment a nd Detection of Releases , and  40 CFR 280, Technical Standards and Corrective Action Requirements for Owners and  Operators of Underground Storage Tanks , and shall have secondary containment  systems with leak detection capability.
   Vessel install ation design shall meet range -peculiar conditions such as  severe wind and seismic loads.
   Vessels, tanks, and systems shall be inventoried and records maintained  in a Range Pressure System Database Management Program or by the Range User  respo nsible for operating the facility.
 If such vessels  are installed on a permanent basis, the install ation shall meet ASME design  requirements or be installed to permit easy access to hydrostat the vessel periodically  in compliance with DOT regulations.
   All pressure vessels shall be designed to allow for a minimum 10% ullage  space at full -load conditions.
   Mobile equipment for public and range highway use shall be designed,  fabricated, inspected, and tested to meet the requirements in 49 CFR, Subpart 6, Parts SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  61  1000 through 1199, Surfa ce Transportation Board, Department of Transportation .
 A  copy of any DOT -approved exemptions shall be provided to Range Safety.
   DOT pressure vessels shall be protected against overpressure in accordance  with 49 CFR.
   DOT pressure v essels used and approved for use in a fixed ground -based  system shall be provided overpressure protection in accordance with ASME code.
 At a minimum, all piping installations  shall be designed in accordance  with ASME B31.
   Pipe material shall be in accordance with ASTM A312/A312M, Standard  Specification for Seamless, Welded, and Heavily Cold Worked Austenitic Stainless  Steel Pipes , and ASME B36.
   Weld fittings such as tees, crosses, elbows, and reducers shall be of the  butt-weld type in accordance with ASME B16.
 Where system design dictates the  use of industrial flanged -type mechanical joints, they shall be in accordance with  ASME B16.
 Flange serrations shall be of concentric design.
 Flange gaskets shall conform  to ASME B16.
   Threaded National Pipe Thread (NPT) connectors shall not be used in  hazardous pressure systems unless specifically approved by Range Safety.
   Maximum Operating Pressure shall not exceed 6,000 psig.
  NPT connection size shall not exceed 1 -inch nominal pipe size.
   NPT connectors used for connecti ons that do not require repeated  demating/mating shall have effective corrosion control applied to the exposed  threads to prevent external corrosion from weakening the high stress points.
   All of the selected components installed with NPT con nections shall  face away from high traffic areas and be anchored or shielded to mitigate projectile  risk if an NPT connector does fail.
   Signs shall be placed in the metering and letdown stations warning  personnel not to step on or grab the p ipe or components protruding from the pipe  due to use of NPT connectors in the pressure system.
   All connections that require periodic demating/mating for periodic  maintenance purposes (such as relief valve functional testing) shall use MS or  equal  straight thread connectors; NPT connectors shall not be used.
   Pressure reducing regulators and control valves shall not be installed  in the pipeline using NPT (tapered thread) fittings.
   Socket welded flanges shall not be used in hazardous pressure system  piping.
   All piping welds shall be of the full penetration butt -weld type.
   All piping and fitting butt welds used to fabricate hazardous pressure  systems shall be  100% visually and radiographically inspected.
 Accept/reject criteria  shall be in accordance with ASME B31.
   Cryogenic piping systems shall pro vide for thermal expansion and  contraction without imposing excessive loads on the system.
   All welded pipe fabricated in place shall be install ed with adequate weld - repair clearance from buildings and other structures.
   All piping shall be located so that it is not hazardous to working personnel.
   All inner pipe welds shall be 100% radiographically inspected.
   The accept/reject criteria shall be I AW Table  341.
   If 37 -degree flared end fittings are used, they shall be designed IAW  precision type AN, MS, or KSC -GP-425, Engineering Standards , standards.
   If butt -weld fittings are used to join tubing, they shall be designed in  accordance with KSC -GP-425 or equivalent.
   All tub ing and butt -weld fitting welds shall be 100% radiographically  inspected.
 Acceptance and rejection criteria shall be IAW Table  341.
   Tubing used with AN or MS fittings shall be flared per SAE AS4330A,  Tubing Flared, Standard D imensions For, Design Standard , and tubing used with  KSC -GP-425 fittings shall be flared per KSC -GP-425.
   Since flared tubing is not designed for service above 6,000 psig, Range  Safety approved super pressure tub ing shall be used for service above 6,000 psig.
   Fabrication and installation of tubing using KSC -GP-425 fittings shall be  in accordance with KSC -SPEC -Z-0008, Specification for Fabrication and Installation  of Flared Tube Assemblies and Installa tion of Fittings and Fitting Assemblies .
   Tube fittings with NPT connectors shall not be used in hazardous pressure  systems.
   The number of mechanical joints in tubing systems shall be kept to a  minimum.
   Tubing shall be seaml ess, stainless steel conforming to ASTM A269,  Seamless and Welded Austenitic Stainless Steel Tubing , or KSC -SPEC -Z-0007,  Specification for Tubing, Steel Corrosion Resistance Type 304 and 316, Seamless,  Annealed .
   Regulators shall be sized to accurately control the pressure to be used in  the system.
   Manually operated regulators shall be selected so that overtorquing the  regulator cannot damage soft seats to the extent that seat failure occurs.
   Regulators shall be designed so that a functional failure cannot create a  hazard to personnel.
   Dome loaded pressure regulators shall be designed to withstand a  differential pressure across the diaphragm and/or piston equal to the maximum rated  inlet pressure without damage.
 A means of venting the dome loading circuit shall be  provided.
   Pressure regulator actuators shall be capable of shutting off the fluid when  the system is at the maximum possible flow and pressure.
   A regulator shall not be used as a safety critical component or be required  to function to preven t a failure that might injure personnel.
   For each stage of regulation, the ratio of upstream -to-downstream pressure  shall be considered by the designer to allow the operator accuracy and control  appropriate for the system being designed.
   Regulators shall be selected so their working pressure falls within the  center 50% of the total pressure range if it is susceptible to inaccuracies or creep at  either end of the pressure range.
   Regulator design using uncontained seats shall not be used.
   Both manual and automatic valve actuators shall be operable under  maximum design flow and pressure for complete opening and closing the respective  valve.
   Remotely operated valves shall be designed to be fail -safe if pneumatic or  electric control  power is lost.
   Designs using uncontained seats shall not be used.
   Inlet and outlet isolation valves (shutoff valves) and appropriate  intermediate vent valve s shall be provided for shutdown and maintenance.
   Valve stem travel shall be limited by a positive stop at each extreme  position.
   The application or removal of force to the stem positioning device shall not  cause disassembly of th e pressure containing structure of the valve.
   Manually operated valves used in hazardous pressure systems shall be  designed so that overtorquing the valve stem cannot damage soft seats to the extent that  seat failure occurs.
   Inlet and outlet isolation valves shall be capable of isolating the maximum  allowable working pressure in both directions without seat failure.
   Fast opening valves that can produce high velocity kinetic effects or  heating effects due to rapid pres surization shall not be used.
   Systems shall have shutoff valves located as close to the supply vessel as  practical and be readily accessible.
   Remotely controlled valves shall provide for remote monitoring of open  and closed posi tions.
   Local or remote stem position indicators shall sense the position of the  stem directly, not the position of the actuating device.
   For remotely controlled valves, positive indication of actual valve  position shall be displ ayed at the control station.
   Valves used in flared tubing system  applications shall be designed for  panel or other rigid mounting.
   All pressure system valves that are required to be in a closed or open  position during system operation shall be protected against inadvertent actuation by  physical means.
   Valves that are not intended to be reversible shall be designed or marked  so that they cannot be connected in a revers e mode.
   Check valves shall be provided where back flow of fluids would  create a hazard.
   Check valves shall be the spring -loaded type with soft seats.
   All electrical control circuits for remote activation shall be shielded or  otherwise protected from hazardous stray energy.
   Balanced manual valves that use external balancing ports or vents open to  the atmosphere shall not be used.
  Remotely operated flow control valves shall be operated pneumatically,  electrically, or hydraulically and shall be capable of fail -safe operation to either the  open or closed position.
 Determination of fail -safe mode (the open or closed position)  shall  depend on the system characteristics.
 All pressure and propellant systems shall have a low -point drain  capability unless prohibited by the DOT, a s well as a high -point bleed capability with easy  accessibility.
   Pressure and propellant systems shall be designed so that commodities  cannot be trapped in any part of the system without vent capability.
   Vent system outlets shall be in a location normally inaccessible to  personnel and shall be conspicuously identified.
   Vent outlets shall be protected against rain intrusion and entry of birds,  insects, and animals.
   Oxidizer and fuel vent outlets to the atmosphere shall be separated  sufficiently to prevent mixing of vented fluids/gases.
   All vent outlets shall be designed to preclude accumulation of vented fluid  in dangerous con centrations in areas frequented by unprotected personnel or motor  vehicles.
   Vent line supports shall be designed to withstand reaction loads due to the  actuation of safety relief devices in accordance with ASME B31.
   Each line venting into a multiple -use vent system shall be protected  against back pressurization by a check valve if the upstream system cannot withstand  the back pressure or where contamination of the upstream system cannot be tolerated.
  Incompatible fluids shall not be discharged into the same vent or drain  system.
   Fuel and oxidizer vent systems shall be equipped with a means of purging  the system with an inert gas to prevent explosive mixtures.
   Vent sys tems shall be sized to provide minimum back pressures  consistent with required venting flow rates.
 In no case shall back pressures interfere  with proper operation of relief devices.
   Personnel and critical equipment shall be protected from po tential  venting hazards.
   Bleed ports shall be located so that they can be operated with minimal  removal of other components and permit the attachment of a hose to direct the bleed - off material into a container, away from the positions of the  operators.
   Test points shall be provided on pressure systems so that disassembly for  test is not required.
   Test points shall be easily accessible for attachment of ground test  equipment.
   A sampling port shall b e provided upstream and downstream of each  regulator in any pneumatic branch line that interfaces with a hypergolic propellant  system to permit periodic sampling and analysis of the medium for contamination.
   Sample ports shall be provided at  cryogenic system low points.
   A single pressure gauge shall be provided at some point downstream  either in the pneumatic system or the propellant system to indicate the pressure in the  propellant system.
   Gauge calibration port s shall be designed to limit potential impingement  of contaminated gas on personnel.
   The drain system shall include a sump or basin where the fluid can safely  collect.
 This sump or basin shall be designed so that it can be easily cleaned and   drainage easily removed.
   All pressure gauges shall conform to the requirements of ASME B40.
   A pressure indicating device shall be connected downstream of each  pressure regulator, on each storage system, and on any section of the system where  pressure can be trapped.
   Gauges shall be sized to accurately display the pressure to  be used in the  system.
   All pressure gauges shall be equipped with a full diameter pressure release  back that shall be sized for maximum flow without case rupture.
   Gauges shall be securely attached to a panel or other rigid mounting.
   If pressure gauge isolation valves are used, they shall be designed so that  they can be secured in the open position.
   Gauge installatio ns shall be designed to have a minimum of 1 -inch  clearance to allow unrestricted venting in the event the gauge vents.
 Personnel and  equipment shall be protected from the vent area.
   Gauges shall be selected so that the normal operating pressu re falls  between 25% and 75% of the scale range, except for gauges used in applications that  require a wide range of operating pressure, which shall not exceed 95% of scale range  of the gauge.
   Remote sensing devices shall be required when it is necessary to monitor  hazardous operations from a remote location.
   Pressure gauges shall be of one -piece, solid -front, using an optically  clear shatterproof window made of high -impact, non -cracking plastic, heat -treated  glass, or laminated  glass.
   For systems containing liquid, such as propellant loading tanks and  hazardous waste tanks, a method for indicating the presence or absence of liquid shall  be provided.
   Liquid system liquid level indicators that contain welded portions  (typically magnetic float type) shall be constructed from stainless steel.
   Liquid system sight glasses used for liquid level indicators shall be  protected from physical damage.
   As required, pressure gauges shall allow for precision cleaning and  verification of cleanliness by particle analysis and non -volatile residue analysis, for  example, a bourdon tube tip bleeder or equivalent.
   Each pressure -indicating device shall be provided with an isolation valve  and should have a test connection (test port) between th e isolation valve and the  pressure -indicating device.
 Trapped volume between the isolation valve and the  pressure -indicating device shall be minimized.
   The operating range -of-pressure transducers used for monitoring  pressures during hazardou s operations shall not be less than 1.
   Flexible hoses shall be used only when required for hookup of portable  equipment or to provide for movement between interconnecting fluid lines when no  other feasible means is available.
   Flexible hoses shall consist of a flexible inner pressure carrier tube  (compatible with the service fluid) constructed of elastomeric (typically poly - tetrafluoroethylene [PTFE] for hypergolic fluid) or corrugated metal (typically 300  series stainless steel) material reinforced by one or more layers of 300 series stainless  steel wire and/or fabric braid.
   Hoses shall be provided with 300 -series stainless steel end fittings of the  coupling nut, 37 -degree flared type or with fittings to mate with the appropriately sized  ASME B16 .
   Interchanging of flexible hoses used in incompatible service media such  as hypergolics shall be avoided.
 Hoses shall be dedicated to a service media.
   Hoses over 2 feet long, pressurized to 250 psig or greater, shall meet the  following restraint requirements:   11.
   Flexible hoses shall have safety cha ins or cables securely attached  across each union or splice and at intervals not to exceed 6 feet.
 Flexible hose  installations that are 6 feet long or longer shall be included so that restraint is  provided on both the hose and adjacent structure at no grea ter than 6 -foot intervals  and at each end to prevent whiplash in the event of a burst.
   Hose end restraints shall be securely attached to the structure in a  manner that in no way interferes with the hose flexibility.
   Restrain ing devices shall be designed and demonstrated to contain a  force not less than 1.
 A thrust equation using  pressure, area, and momentum is the approach best founded in physics and shall be  used for calculating the open force line pressure.
   The design safety factor for restraint devices shall not be less than 3  on material yield strength.
   Hose clamp -type restraining devices shall not be used.
   Flexible hose installation shall be designed to avoid abrasive contact with  adjacent structures or moving parts.
  Flexible hose assemblies shall not be installed in a manner that will place  a mechanical load on the hose or hose fittings to an extent that will degrade hose  strength or cause the hose fitting to loosen.
   Flexible hose shall not be supp orted by rigid lines or components if  excessive loads from flexible hose motion can occur.
   Flexible hose between two components may have excessive motion  restrained where necessary, but shall never be rigidly supported by a tight rigid clamp  around the flexible hose.
   Flexible hoses shall not be exposed to temperatures that exceed the rated  temperature of the hose.
   Flexible hoses that are permitted to pass close to a heat source shall be  protected with a fireproof boot metal baffle.
   Designs using convoluted, unlined bellows or flexible metal hoses shall  be analyzed to verify premature failure caused by  flow-induced vibration is precluded.
   Acoustic coupling that can intensify the stresses caused by flow -induced  vibration shall be avoided by ensuring that normal fluid flow requirements do not  exceed a velocity of Mach 0.
   The bend radius of flexible hoses shall be designed to be no less than the  safe minimum bend radius recommended in authoritative specifications for the  particul ar hose and in no case less than five times the outside diameter of the hose.
   A means of plugging or capping flexible hoses shall be provided when  the hose is not in use.
   Flexible hoses shall be used only when required to isolate vibration  and piping movement and for hookup of portable and mobile equipment.
   Flexible hoses shall be of the single -wall, double -wall, or double - wall vacuum -jacketed typ e.
   All convoluted portions of flexible hoses shall be covered with  stainless steel wire braid.
   All fixed pressure vessels shall be protected against overpressure by  means of at least one conventional safety relief valve or pilot -operated pressure relief  valve in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII,  Division 1.
 Rupture disks alone shall not be used to protect against overpressure.
   Particular care shall be taken to monitor and/or vent the space between the  rupture disc and the relief valve as required.
 The space between a rupture disc and a  relief valve shall be designed to allow annual testing for leakage and/or contamination.
   Installation of the pressure relief devices shall be in accordance with  ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel  Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UG -135.
   The flow capacity for all relief devices shall be certified in accordance  with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UG - 127, UG -129, UG -131, and UG -132, as  applicable.
   The total relieving capacity of pressure relief devices shall be determined  in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1,  Paragraph UG -133.
 The required relieving capacity shall be provided by  a single valve  where possible.
   The set pressure on pressure relief devices shall be set to operate at a  pressure not to exceed the MAWP of the vessel (see ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel  Code, Section VIII, Division 1, UG -134).
   The relieving capacity of the relief valve shall be equal to or greater than  the maximum flow capability of the upstream pressure reducing device or pressure  source and shall prevent the pressure from rising more than 20% above the system  MOP or that allo wed by ASME B31.
   Pressure relief valves shall be set to operate at a set pressure not to exceed  110% of the system MOP or that allowed by ASME B31.
   Negative pressure protection shall be  provided for vessels not designed  to withstand pressures below 1 atmosphere if the pressure vessel feed system or  operational use renders it susceptible to negative gauge pressure.
   Pressure vessel relief devices shall be located so that other components  cannot render them inoperative except as specified in ASME Boiler and Pressure  Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Parag raph UG -135 and Appendix M,  Installation and Operations , Paragraphs M -5 and M -6.
 When a shutoff valve is allowed  IAW the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, the valve type shall have provisions  for being locked in the open or closed position.
   The shutoff valve associated with the relief device shall have permanent  marking clearly identifying its position (open or closed).
   A pressure relief valve shall be installed downstream of the last GSE  regulator before flight hardware interface and before entering a container and/or black  box purge system.
   All relief valves and piping shall be structurally  restrained to eliminate  any thrust effects from transferring moment forces to the vessel nozzles or lines.
   The effects of the discharge from relief devices shall be assessed and  analyzed to ensure that operation of the device cannot be haza rdous to personnel or  equipment.
   All relief devices shall be vented sep arately unless the following can be  positively demonstrated:   11.
 The analysis shall assume that all relief valves  connected to the vent system are open and flowin g full capacity.
   Both the inlet and discharge sides of a relief valve shall be  hydrostatically or pneumatically tested.
 Prior approval of the plan for pneumatic testing shall be obtained from  Range Safety.
   Pressure relief valves shall be tested for proper set pressure setting before  installation.
   A pressure relief valve shall be installed as close as is practical  downstream of e ach pressure reducing device (regulator, orifice) or downstream of any  source of pressure such as compressors, gas rechargers, and tube bank trailer whenever  any portion of the downstream system cannot withstand the full upstream pressure.
 The  criteria for  “withstand” is that the upstream pressure shall not exceed the MAWP of  any pressure vessel or component downstream of the regulator or pressure source.
   Pressure system relief devices shall have no intervening stop valves  between piping being protected and the relief devices or between the relief device and  the point of discharge except as all owed by ASME B31.
 When a  shutoff valve is allowed IAW the ASME code, the valve shall have provisions for being  locked in the open or closed position.
 The valve shall have permanent marking clearly  identifying its position (OPEN or CLOS ED).
   All piping supports, anchors, hangers, and o ther restraints shall conform  to the requirements of ASME B31.
   Where line restraint is required, anchors, guides, pivots, or restraints  shall be fabricated or purchased and assembled in such a  form as to secure the  desired points of piping in relatively fixed positions.
   Line restraints shall permit the line to expand and contract freely in  opposite directions away from the anchored or guided point.
   Line restraint s shall be designed to withstand the thrust, torsional  forces, and load conditions of operation.
   Line restraints shall contain the line in case of line failure.
   The support shall be capable of withstanding no less than 2 tim es  the available force as a result of thrust generated from component failure under  pressure.
   All relief valves and attached vent piping shall be designed to withstand  any thrust caused by venting fluids.
   All rigid tubing assemblies shall be supported by rigid structures using  cushioned steel clamps or suitable multiple tube, block -type clamps.
   Tubing supports within consoles or modules shall be spaced according to  the maximum spacing listed in Table  11.
   Tubing supports between consoles and modules shall be spaced according  to the maximum spacing listed in Table  11.
   Components within a system shall be supported by a firm structure and  not the connecting tubing or piping unless it can be shown by analysis that the tubing  or piping can safely support the component with a safety factor of 3 against yield.
   Hazardous pressure system piping shall be installed with sufficient  flexibility to prevent static or dynamic flow -induced loads and thermal expansion or  contraction from causing excessive stresses to be induced in the system, excessive  bending moments at jo ints, or undesirable forces or moments at points of connection  to equipment or at anchorage or guide points.
   Gear pumps shall not be used for high pressure applications involving  flammable and/or hazardous fluids.
   The inlet pressure of hydraulic pumps shall be controlled to prevent  cavitation effects in the pump passage or outlets.
   Hydraulic pumps required to provide emergency power shall not be used  for any other function.
   Hydraulic pressure systems shall have regulators with a pressure relieving  or self -bleeding feature.
   Pumps used in hypergolic propellant systems shall be of the centrifugal  type specifically designed for pumping hypergolic propellants.
   For all power -generating components, pump pulsations shall be  controlled to a level that does not adversely affect system tubing, components, and  support installation.
   When two or more hydraulic actuators are mechanically tied  together, only one lock valve shall be used to hydraulically lock all the actuators.
   The ambient operating temperature for hydraulic systems shall not  exceed 275° F for systems usin g petroleum -based fluids.
   Fluids for systems operating at temperatures higher than 275° F shall  be fire resistant or fireproof for the intended service.
   Where system leakage can expose hydraulic fluid to potential  ignition s ources, fire resistant or flameproof hydraulic fluid shall be used.
   All hydraulic piping installations shall be designed, installed, and  tested in accordance with ASME B31.
   Pressure snubbers shall be used with all hydrauli c pressure  transmitters, hydraulic pressure switches, and hydraulic pressure gauges.
   A gauge indicating accumulator gas pressure shall never be used to  indicate equiva lent hydraulic pressure.
   Pressure system relief devices shall have no intervening stop valves  between piping being protected and the relief devices or between the relief device  and the point of discharge, except as allowed per ASME B31.
   When a shutoff valve is allowed IAW the ASME Boiler and  Pressure Vessel Code, the valve type shall have provisions for being secured in the  open or closed position.
   The shutoff valve shall have permanent marking clearly ide ntifying  its position (OPEN or CLOSED).
   Thermal expansion relief valves shall be installed as necessary to  prevent system damage from thermal expansion of hydraulic fluid.
   The thermal relief valve setting shall not exceed either the system  test pressure or 120% of the system MOP.
   Accumulators and reservoirs that are pressurized with gas to  pressures greater than 250 psig shall be desi gned, constructed, tested, certified, and  code stamped in accordance with ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section  VIII, Division 1 or Division 2.
   Hydraulic system reservoirs shall be provided with a fluid level  indicator.
 If a sight g lass is used for a liquid level indicator, it shall be properly SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  75  protected from physical damage.
   Only inert gases shall be used in pressurization accumulators in  systems operating at pressures in excess of 200 psi or temperatures over 160° F   unless adequate fire and explosion resistance is demonstrated.
   For a gas -pressurized reservoir, the gas pressure shall be controlled  by an externally nonadjustable pressure regulating device to control the gas  pressure in the reservoir.
   Hydraulic systems having reservoir filling caps shall include design  provisions that will automatically vent the reservoir opening.
   All fixed hypergolic fue l vessels shall be designed with a minimum value  of 75 psig MAWP.
   All fixed hypergolic oxidizer vessels shall be designed with a minimum  value of 100 psig MAWP.
   Components used in any fuel or oxidizer system shall not be interch anged  after exposure to the respective media.
   Lubricants for hypergolic systems shall be approved compatible  lubricants only.
   Bi-propellant propellant systems shall have the capability of loading fuel  and oxidizer systems one at a time.
   Each pneumatic branch line that interfaces with a hypergolic  propellant system shall be single fault tolerant to permit positive shutoff of the  pneumatic supply and prevent back flow through the branch.
 A pressure gauge shall  be provided at some point down stream either in the pneumatic system or the  hypergol system of each check valve to indicate the pressure in the hypergolic  propellant system.
   Each pneumatic branch supply shall interface with only one type of  hypergolic propellant (fuel or oxidizer).
   Dow nstream of the pneumatic pressure regulator, the pneumatic  system shall be identified and marked as a hypergolic system.
   All hypergolic vent effluent resulting from routine operations shall  be scrubbed or incinerated, as appropriate, before  venting to the atmosphere  through vent stacks.
   All scrubber and incinerator designs and qualification tests shall be  reviewed and approved by Range Safety, Bioenvironmental Engineering, and Civil  Engineering.
   Each line venting into a multiple -use vent system shall be protected  against b ack pressurization by means of a check valve if the upstream system  cannot withstand the back pressure or where contamination of the upstream system  cannot be tolerated.
   Copper, bronze, or other alloys that might form copper oxides shall be  avoided in hydrazine areas.
 If used, they shall be positively protected by distance,  sealing in a compatible material, or use of a splash guard.
   GSE used to handle propellant systems shall be designed to ensure that all  incompatible fuels and oxidizers are separated so that operations during the prelaunch  phase cannot cause inadvertent mixing of the propellants.
   Downstream of the pneumatic pressure regulator, including the regulator  seat, the pneumatic system shall be constructed of materials that are compatible with  all of the hypergolic propellants serviced by the pneumatic supply.
   The area in close proximity to the hardware containing and/or  transporting hydrazine -based fuels shall be maintained free of surface co rrosion and its  associated oxidation byproducts.
   All hypergolic fuel and oxidizer transportation and storage containers  shall have the capability to be grounded.
  Cryogenic systems shall be insulated with compatible material or be  vacuum -jacketed to avoid liquefaction of air.
 Drip pans or other equivalent means shall  be provided under flanges when there exists the possibility of leaking liquefied air.
  Cryogenic fuel and oxidizer systems shall have the capability of loading  one commodity at a time.
   Vacuum -jacketed systems shall be capable of having the vacuum verified.
   Purge gas for LH2 and cold gaseous hydrogen (GH2) lines shall be  gaseous helium (GHe).
 Neither GN2 nor LN2 shall be introduced into any LH2 line  that interfaces with a liquid storage tank cold port.
   Cryogenic systems shall be designed to ensu re the separation of fuels and  oxidizers and to prevent inadvertent mixing.
   Precautions shall be taken to prevent cross mixing of media through  common purge lines by use of check valves to prevent back flow from a system into a  purge distribu tion manifold.
 If the  Range User deems cross connection is required, a hazard analysis shall be performed  to show no additional hazards are created.
   All permanently ins talled cryogenic vessels shall consist of an inner and  an outer shell.
   The annular space between the inner and outer shell shall be insulated and  may be vacuum -jacketed or purged.
 Exception : LH2 and LHe vessels shall be vacuum - jacketed.
   The inner shell shall be designed, constructed, tested, certified, and code  stamped on the exterior of the vessel in compliance with ASME Boiler and Pressure  Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1 or Division 2.
   In lieu of the code stamp, a nameplate bearing the required inner shell  data shall be attached to the outer shell.
   The outer shell shall be designed for 0.
   For non -vacuum -jacketed vessels, the annular space shall be protected  by means of a vacuum breaker.
   Local and remote readout liquid level indicators shall be provided for  LH2 and LO2 storage vessels.
   At a minimum, local readout capability shall be provided for all other  cryogenic storage vessels.
   Cryogenic piping systems shall provide for thermal expansion and  contraction without imposing excessive loads on the system.
   Cryogenic systems shall be designed to ensure icing does not render the  valve inoperable.
   Cryogenic valves with extended stems shall be installed with the actuator  approximately vertical above the valve.
   GH2 and liquefied natural gas (LNG) vapors shall be vented to the  atmosphere through a burner system unless otherwise agreed to by Range Safety.
   GH2 and LNG vapor burner design and testing requirement s shall be  approved by Range Safety.
   Pressure vessels shall be designed with an opening for inspection  purposes.
   All inner shell pressure retaining welds including shell, head nozzle, and  nozzle -to-head and shell welds shall be 100% inspected by radiographic and/or  ultrasonic volumetric NDE.
   All inner shell attachment welds for items such as supports, lugs, and  pads shall be 100% inspected by liquid penetrant, ultrasonic, magnetic particle, eddy  current, and/ or radiographic surface NDE.
   Welded attachments to the inner vessel such as stiffening rings or  supports shall be continuously weld ed.
   All attachments to the inner shell shall be positioned so that no  attachment weld overlaps any Category A or B weld as defined in ASME Boiler and  Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, Paragraph UW -3.
   Cryogenic sy stems shall be provided with readily accessible low -point  drain capability to allow draining of tanks and piping systems.
   Vacuum -jacketed or other types of thermal insulation shall be based on  system heat leak rate and failure mode and effect determination.
   For failure modes that could result in a time -critical emergency  condition, provisions  shall be made for automatic switching to a safe mode of  operation.
 Caution and warning signals shall be provided for these time -critical  functions.
   Flight propulsion systems and/or propellant tanks and their associated  propellant loading sy stem (including portable vessels and units) shall be designed such  that propellant transfer operations are commonly bonded and grounded.
   Titanium and titanium alloys shall not be used where there is possible  exposure to gaseous oxygen (cryog enic boil -off) or liquid oxygen.
   Cryogenic piping design shall be in accordance with ASME B31.
   Joints in piping systems shall be of the butt -weld, flanged, bayonet, or hub  type in accordance with KSC -GP-425, KC159/KC163, or the commercial equivalent.
   Butt-weld fittings shall conform to ASME B16.
9 and shall be constructed  of wrought ASTM A403 grade WP304L or WP316L stainless steel.
   Flanged joints shall be either weld neck or lap joint, raised face type  conforming to ASME B16.
5 and shall be constru cted of forged ASTM A182 F304L or  F316L stainless steel.
 The use of slip -on flanges shall be avoided.
   Flange faces or lap -joint stub end faces shall be concentrically serrated  conforming to Manufacturers Standardization Society -Standard Pract ice (MSS -SP)-6,  Standard Finishes for Contact Faces of Pipe Flanges and Connecting End Flanges of  Valves and Fittings .
   LH2 vent system flanged joints shall be metal -to-metal and shall be seal - welded unless otherwise approved by Range Safety.
   Flange bolting and studs shall conform to ASME B18.
1, Square and  Hex Bolts and Screws, Inch Series,  recommended dimensions and shall use ASME  B1.
   Bolt mater ials shall be per ASTM A193 or ASTM A320.
   Nuts for flange bolting and studs shall conform to ASTM A194 and  ASME B18.
   Pipe fittings such as tees, elbows, crosses, reducers, and lap joint stub  ends shall be full penetra tion butt weld type only, conforming to ASTM A403 and  ASME B16.
   Bayonet fittings shall be used on vacuum -jacketed l ines where butt  welding is not practical and a mechanical joint is required.
   Metal -to-metal couplings shall be the butt -welded types.
 The gaskets  (not reusable) shall be constructed of stainless steel only.
 The V -band clamps shall be  constru cted of stress -corrosion -resistant material.
   Vacuum -jacketed pipe shall not use bellows in the inner pipe.
 Allowance  for differential expansion between inner and outer pipe shall be provided by bellows in  the outer pipe.
   Compressed air systems (shop air) operating at 250 psig or less shall be  designed, operated, and maintained IAW acc epted industry standards such as 29 CFR  1910.
 Air Force owned/operated compressed air  (shop air) systems shall comply with the requirements o f AFMAN 32 -1068.
   Breathing air systems shall be designed to ensure acceptable breathing air  is provided to the operator and the following requirements are met.
   PHEs shall be compatible with the commodities expected to be  contacted.
   The breathing air commodity shall meet the requirements of  Compresse d Gas Association (CGA) G -7.
   The breathing air piping system and all components shall be cleaned  to Level 200A or cleaner.
   The breathing air piping system shall be designed to provide a  positive pad pressure of 10 psig when in standby condition.
   Breathing air connection interfaces shall be sized or oriented so that  no interconnection with other commodities is possible.
 Selection of specific quick  disconnects shall be approved by Range Safety.
   Air connect interfaces shall be clearly identified with signs or  placards to identify the commodity as “BREATHING AIR” or as “SHOP AIR  (NOT TO BE USED AS BREATHING AIR).
   All permanently installed pressure vessels, accumulators, and reservoirs  except DOT vessels shall be hydrostatically tested in accordance with ASME B oiler  and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Division 1, or Division 2, as applicable to the  year of construction of the vessel.
   All piping and tubing system components shall be pressure tested in  accordance with methods and criteria containe d in ASME B31.
   Pressure vessels designed to meet DOT specifications shall undergo  qualification and hydrostatic testing in accordance with DOT requirements.
   Hydrostatic or pneumatic testing shall demonstrate that there is no  distortion, damage, or leakage of components at the appropriate test level pressure.
   The following inspections shall be performed after hydrostatic testing:   11.
   Mechanical components such as valves, regulators, piping, and  fittings shall be inspected for distortion or other evidence of physical damage.
  Damaged components shall be rejected.
   A component functional and leak test shall be performed at the  MAWP of the component.
   Pressure relief devices, gauges and transducers shall be calibrated before  installation and yearly thereafter.
 Prior approval for pneumatic p roof testing at the ranges shall be obtained from  Range Safety.
   All valves used for hypergolic systems shall be tested for both external and  internal leakage at MAWP using an inert gas (helium/nitrogen) consisting of at least  10% helium.
   Internal leakage of valves shall not exceed limits specified in the  valve performance specification.
   Where no valve specification exists, the leak rate shall not exceed 1  x 10-6 cc/sec at standard temperature and pressure.
   All newly assembled pressure s ystems shall be hydrostatically tested  to 1.
 Where this is not possible, Range Safety shall  determine the adequacy of component testing and alternate means of testing the  assembled system.
 Prior approval of the plan for pneumatic  testing shall be obtained from Range Safety.
   All cryogenic systems shall be hydrostatically tested to at least 1.
   Cryogenic systems that cannot be chilled and hydrostatically tested  with an inert fluid at or below the lowest expected temperature shall require a cold  shock demonstration test, a hazard analysis, and a fracture mechanics safe -life  analysis.
   The hydrostatic test or cold shock/soak test (for at least 1 hour) shall  demonstrate that the system or components shall sustain test pressure level and  temperature grad ient without distortion, damage, or leakage.
   The following inspections shall be performed on vacuum -jacketed  systems:   11.
 Cold spots in  the outer line shall not be more than 5° C colder than the surrounding area,  except in cases where system heat -leak requirements permit colder 82 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   temperatures, such as around low -point drain valves, relief valves, or other  areas where a direct thermal path is available.
   Vacuum reading s for all vacuum volumes shall be taken and  recorded.
 These readings shall be taken before, during, and after the test.
   The vacuum readings after the hydrostatic or cold shock/soak  using a cryogenic fluid shall be taken when the system ret urns to ambient  temperature.
   For systems with a hazardous fluid, after hydrostatic testing and  before the introduction of propellant, a pneumatic leak test of completely assembled  syste ms shall be conducted at the system MOP using an inert gas (helium/nitrogen)  consisting of at least 10% helium.
   After successful completion of the hydrostatic test using a cryogenic  fluid, a pneumatic leak test of the complete system shall be performed at the system  MOP using helium or a mixture of nitrogen with a minimum of 25% helium.
 There  shall be no leakage into the vacuum volume in excess of 1.
 The  sensitivity of the instr umentation used to measure leak rate shall be a minimum of  1 times 1.
   All newly assembled pressure systems, except systems designed,  fabricated, inspected, and tested in accordance with DOT requirements, shall be  leak tested at the system MOP before first use at the ranges.
   This test shall be conducted at the ranges unless prior approval from  Range Safety has been obtained.
   The gas or fluid used during the leak test shall be the same as  the system fluid media except those used for hazardous gas systems.
   Mechanical connections, gasketed joints, seals, valve bonnets,  and weld seams shall pass a mass spectrometer helium leak check or shall be  visually bubble tight for a minimum of 1 minute when leak tested with MIL - PRF-25567E, Leak Detection Compound, Oxygen  Systems , Type 1 or  equivalent leak test solution.
   All newly assembled pressure systems shall have a system validation SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  83  test and a functional test of each component at system MOP before first operational  use at the ranges.
   Thes e tests shall be conducted at the ranges unless prior approval  from Range Safety has been obtained.
   Tests shall demonstrate the functional capability of all  components such as valves , regulators, orifices, pumps, and gauges.
   All operational sequences for the system shall be executed  including emergency shut down and safing procedures.
   All shutoff and block valves shall be leak checked downstream  to ve rify their shutoff capability in the closed position.
   The intended service fluid shall be used as the test fluid where  practical.
   Systems shall be tested to verify bonding and grounding.
   After repairs and/or modifications to exist ing tankage, piping, and other  system components, tests shall be performed to the same standards, codes, and  requirements for which a new system would be designed, fabricated, and tested.
3, including  piping, tubing, fittings, or welds, that has been repaired, modified, or possibly damaged,  before hav ing been hydrostatically or pneumatically tested, shall be retested  hydrostatically to 1.
3, including pressure  gauges, transducers, or ruptu re discs and other components shall be retested  hydrostatically to 1.
   After hydrostatic testing, modified or repaired system s shall be leak tested  at the system MOP before placing them back in service.
 This test shall be conducted at  the ranges unless prior approval has been obtained from Range Safety.
   After hydrostatic testing, modified or repaired systems shall b e functionally  tested at the system MOP before reuse.
   All system mechanical joints affected in the disconnection, connection, or  replacement of components shall be leak tested at the system MOP before being placed  back in service.
   Gaskets shall not be reused.
   As applicable, a hazard analysis, shall be performed on all hazardous  systems hardware and software IAW a jointly tailored SSPP.
   At a minimum, the hazard analysis shall include the analysis requireme nts  in AFI 10 -2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program , and Air Force Pamphlet  (AFPAM) 10 -219 Volume 1, Contingency and Disaster Planning , for toxic, reactive,  flammable, and explosive fluids and DAFMAN 91 -203 and 29 CFR 1910.
   An engineering assessment and analysis shall be performed before the start  of the first recertification period.
   The engineering assessmen t of the design, fabrication, material, service,  inspection, and testing shall be evaluated against the latest codes, standards,  regulations, and requirements identified in this volume.
   Discrepancies with the latest requirements shall be resol ved by repair,  modification, analysis, inspection, or test.
 At a minimum, the  following potential design, fabrication, and installation type deficiencies shall be  assessed:   11.
 At a minimum, the  following potential operation and ma intenance deficiencies shall be assessed:   11.
 The Range User  responsible for the design of hazardous pressure systems shall prepare an in -service  operating, maintenance, and inspection plan.
 This plan shall be referred to as the In -service  Inspection (ISI) Plan.
 The ISI Plan shall address and provide the following:  SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  85  Table 11.
   Credible failure mechanisms that may cause service -related failures of the  system during its service life shall be analyzed.
   Methods such as “eliminated,” “controlled by design,” “controlled by  procedure,” or “controlled by corrosion protection” used to eliminate and control these  failure mechanisms shall be identified.
   Using the results of the above failure mechanism analysis, the following  minimum require ments for an operating, maintenance, and inspection plan shall be  defined:   11.
   Operating plans shall address operating constraints such as maximum  pressure, MAWP, MOP, minimum and maximum temperature, vibration, and  maximum cycles.
   Maintenance plans shall address corrosion protection, maintenance  schedule, soft -good replacement program, refurbishment, calibration, and other  maintenance requirements.
   Inspection plans shall identify the type and frequency of inspections  such as visual, surface, and volumetric NDE required for each vessel and system to  detect the types of failure mechanisms identified in paragraph  11.
   All inspections shall be performed by inspectors qualified and  certified in inspection techniques according to the ASNT recommended practices  (SNT -TC-1A) or Range Safety approved equivalent.
 The data required shall be incorporated into the  MSP SP or submitted as a separate package when appropriate.
 Certification data shall be  placed in a certification file to be maintained by the hazardous pressure system operator.
  Range Safety shall review and approve this data before first operational use of n ew,  modified, or repaired hazardous pressure systems at the ranges.
 The  following general ground support equipment data shall be submitted as part of the  MSPSP.
   For hazardous propellants, fluids, and gases, data shall be submitted  IAW Attachment  2, A2.
 Ground  support pressure systems design data shall be submitted IAW Attachment  2, A2.
  Ground support pressure systems component design data shall be submitted IAW  Attachment  2, A2.
   All test plans,  test procedures and test reports required in this chapter  shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and approval.
   A list and synopsis of all hazardous pressure system operational  procedures to be performed at the ranges shall be provide d to Range Safety.
   The certification file for each hazardous pressure system shall contain all the data  required to justify system certification.
   The data shall include, but not b e limited to, the following:   11.
 An engineering analysis shall be  performed as follows:   11.
   A stress analysis of all vessels and piping shall be availa ble for evaluation or  performed to verify that stresses are within allowable limits of current codes, standards,  and regulations as identified in this volume.
   The number of stress cycles experienced by the vessel during the certification  period shall be determined.
   Using fracture mechanics analysis, the cyclic limits for vessels with pressures  greater than 2,500 psig, burst -before -leak failure mode, or corrosive and/or toxic fluids  shall be determined.
   The safe -life analysis  shall be performed under the assumption of pre -existing  cracks.
 All unacceptable indications shall be  repaired.
 The safe -life analysis shall be conducted IAW the following requirements:   11.
   The analysi s shall show that the vessel will service at least 4 times the  cycles expected during the recertification period.
   The analysis shall calculate and evaluate the results from the worst  combination of crack sizes (refer to NASA -STD -5009, Nondestr uctive Evaluation  Requirements for Fracture -Critical Metallic Components , for guidance) and locations  such as boss transition area, heat affected area, weld joint, and membrane section within  the vessel.
   The appropriate stress component in the  vessel shall be used in the analysis.
   The initial flaw size used in the safe -life analysis shall be based on either  the hydrostatic test pressure or the detection limits of the appropriate NDE techniques.
5 shall be considered.
   Calculated cycles to failure shall be based on the maximum and minimum  operating pressure.
   A liner elastic fracture mechanic parameter (stress -intensity factors ) shall  be used to determine critical crack sizes.
 The most conservative deformation mode shall  be used to determine the appropriate stress -intensity factors (fracture toughness) as  appropriate for the parent, weld, and joint materials.
   Fractu re mechanics shall only be used to predict the subcritical crack  propagation life before unstable crack growth.
   The safe -life analysis results shall be reduced by a factor of 4 in conjunction  with assuming the most conservative bounds on mater ial properties and crack growth  data for the vessel environment.
   Failure mode determination shall be in accordance with API -579/ASME - FFS-1, Fitness for Service , or equivalent standard.
   Vessels subject to stress corrosion (sustain ed stress) shall show that the  corresponding applied stress intensity during operation is less than the threshold stress  intensity in the intended environment.
   Corrosion allowance and the remaining wall shall be determined based on  MIL-HDBK -729, Corrosion and Corrosion Prevention Metals .
   The structural design of all pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall use  industry or government standard processes and procedures for manufacture an d repair.
   The design shall provide for access, inspection, service, repair, and  refurbishment.
   For all reusable pressure vessels and pressurized structures, the design shall  permit this hardware to be maintained in and refurbished to a flightworthy condition.
 To  be considered flightworthy, repaired or refurbished hardware items shall pass all the  applicable acceptance tests and inspections required for new flight hardware.
   Repaired and refurbished hardware shall meet the sam e conditions of  flightworthiness as new hardware.
   Airborne hazardous pressure systems shall be designed to be single fault tolerant  against inadvertent actuation s (including leakage) or component failure that could result in  a critical hazard during prelaunch operations.
   Airborne hazardous pressure systems shall be designed to be dual fault tolerant  against inadvertent actuations (including leakage) or component failure that could result in  a catastrophic hazard during prelaunch operations.
,  rupture or leakage) of tubing, piping, vessels and normally closed pyrovalves with  machined parent metal shear sections shall not  be considered single failures provided they  meet the applicable requirements of this volume.
 Normally closed pyrovalves used in  propellant/pressurization systems without additional barriers to leakage shall be considered 90 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   hazardous ordnance devices per Chapter  13 of this volume and shall meet the tubing and  fitting requirements of this volume.
   For contingency safing operation s, hazardous pressure systems shall be designed  so that depressurization and drain fittings are accessible and do not create a personnel or  equipment hazard for offloading hazardous fluids at the launch complex.
   If the Range User and Range Safety decide that depressurizing and/or offloading  the pressure systems of a mated spacecraft is prohibited at the launch pad, spacecraft  offload procedures shall be approved by Range Safety prior to use.
 The requirements for operating  hazardous pressure systems found in SSCMAN 91 -710 Volume 6 shall be taken into  consideration in the design and testing of these systems in addition to the general requirements  identified in paragraph  12.
   A hazard analysis shall be performed on all hazardous systems hardware  and software (if applicable) IAW a jointly tailored SSPP (see SSCMAN 91 -710  Volume 1, Attachment 3).
   Prelaunch and launch hazards shall be analyzed.
   A detailed system functional analysis shall be performed to determine that  the operation, interaction, or  sequencing of components shall not lead to damage to the  launch vehicle, payload, or associated ground support equipment.
   The analysis shall identify all possible malfunctions or personnel errors in  the operation of any component that may cre ate conditions leading to an unacceptable  risk to personnel or equipment.
   The analysis shall also evaluate any credible secondary or subsequent  occurrence, failure, or component malfunction that, initiated by a primary failure, could  result in  personnel injury.
   Items identified by the hazard analyses shall be designated safety critical  and shall require the following considerations:   12.
   Systems analysis data shall show that:   12.
   When the hazardous effects of safety critical failures or malfunctions  are prevented through the use of redundant components or systems, all such  redundant components or syst ems shall be operational before the initiation of  irreversible portions of safety critical operations or events.
   A detai led and comprehensive stress analysis of each pressure vessel  and pressurized structure shall be conducted under the assumption of no crack -like  flaws in the structure.
   The analysis shall determine stresses resulting from the combined  effect s of internal pressure, ground or flight loads, and thermal gradients.
   Both membrane stresses and bending stresses resulting from internal  pressure and external loads shall be calculated to account for the effects of  geometrical discontinuit ies, design configuration, and structural support  attachments.
   Loads shall be combined by using the appropriate design limit or  ultimate safety factors on the individual loads and comparing the results to material  allowables.
   Safety factors shall be as determined in paragraph  12.
   Safety factors on external (support) loads shall be as assigned to the  primary structure supporting the pressurized sy stem.
   Finite element or other equivalent structural analysis techniques shall  be used to calculate the stresses, strains and displacements for complex geometries  and loading conditions.
   As necessary, local structural models shall be constructed to augment 92 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   the overall structural model in areas of rapidly varying stresses.
   Minimum material gauge as specified in the design drawings shall be  used in calculating stresses.
   The allowable material strengths shall reflect the effects of  temperature, thermal cycling and gradients, processing variables, and time  associ ated with the design environments.
   Minimum margins of safety associated with the parent materials,  weldments, and heat -affected zones shall be calculated and tabulated for all  pressure vessels and pressurized structures along with their loca tions and stress  levels.
   The margins of safety shall be positive against the strength and  stiffness requirements of paragraph  12.
   For composite overwrapped pressure vessels (COPVs) and  pressurized structures made of composite materials, the state -of-the-art  methodology usi ng composite laminate theory shall be used.
   Interlam ination normal and shear stresses as well as in -plane stress  components shall be calculated.
   Effects of ply orientation, stacking sequence, and geometrical  discontinuities shall be accounted for.
  When conventional fatigue analysis is used to demonstrate the fatigue -life of an unflawed  pressure vessel or pressurized structure, nominal values of fatigue -life characteristics,  including stress -life (S -N) and st rain-life (Se -N) data of the structural materials, shall be  used.
   These data shall be taken from reliable sources or other sources approved  by the procuring agency.
   The analysis shall account for the spectra of expected operating loads,  pressure, and environments.
   When crack growth safe -life analysis is used to demonstrate the safe -life of  a pressure vessel or a pressurized structure,  undetected flaws shall be assumed to be in  the critical locations and in the most unfavorable orientation with respect to the applied  stress and material properties.
   The size of the flaws (cracks) shall be based on the appropriate NDE  techniques and flaw detection capabilities.
 Proof test logic shall not be used to  determine the initial flaw size for fracture analysis.
   Nominal values of fracture toughness and fatigue crack growth rate data  associated with each alloy, temper, product form, and thermal and chemical  environments shall be used in the safe -life analysis.
   Pressure vessels or pressurized structures that experience sustained stresses  shall also show that the corresponding maximum stress intensity factor (K max) during  sustained load in  operation is less than the stress -corrosion cracking threshold (K ISCC)  data in the appropriate environment, K max < KISCC.
   A Range Safety approved crack growth software package shall be used to  conduct the safe -life analysis.
   Aspect ratio (a/2c) changes shall be accounted for in the analysis.
   Retardation effects on crack growth rates from variable amplitude loading  shall not be considered without approval by the procuring agency.
   Tensile residual stres ses shall be included in the analysis.
   The safe -life analysis shall be included in the stress analysis report.
 In  particular, loading spectra, environments, assumed initial flaw sizes, crack -growth  models, fatigue crack growth rate, and fract ure data shall be delineated.
 A summary of  significant results shall be clearly presented.
   The entire anticipated load -pressure -temperature hi story and associated  environments throughout the service life shall be determined IAW specified mission  requirements.
   At a minimum, the following factors and their statistical variations shall be  considered:   12.
   All pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall possess sufficient strength  to withstand limit loads and MEOP in the expected operating environments t hroughout  their respective service lives without experiencing detrimental deformation.
   All pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall also withstand ultimate loads  and design burst pressure in the expected operating environments without e xperiencing  rupture or collapse.
   Pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall be capable of withstanding  ultimate external loads and ultimate external pressure (destabilizing) without collapse or  rupture when internally pressurized to the m inimum anticipated operating pressure.
   All pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall sustain proof pressure  without incurring gross yielding or detrimental deformation and shall sustain design burst  pressure without rupture.
   When proof tests are conducted at temperatures other than design temperatures,  the change in material properties at the proof temperature shall be accounted for in  determining proof pressure.
   Pressurized structures subject to instability modes of  failure shall not collapse  under ultimate loads nor degrade the functioning of any system due to elastic buckling  deformation under limit loads.
   Evaluation of buckling strength shall consider the combined action of primary  and secondary stresse s and their effects on general instability, local or panel instability, and  crippling.
   Design loads for buckling shall be ultimate loads, except that any load  component that tends to alleviate buckling shall not be increased by the ultimate desi gn  safety factor.
   Destabilizing pressures shall be increased by the ultimate design factor, but  internal stabilizing pressures shall not be increased unless they reduce structural capability.
   The margin of safety shall be positive an d shall be determined by analysis or  test at design ultimate and design limit levels, when appropriate, at the temperatures  expected for all critical conditions.
   Pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall possess adequate stiffness to  preclude detrimental deformation at limit loads and pressures in the expected operating  environments throughout their respective service lives.
   The stiffness  properties of pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall be  such as to prevent all detrimental instabilities of coupled vibration modes, minimize  detrimental effects of the loads and dynamics response that are associated with structural  flexibility , and avoid adverse contact with other vehicle systems.
   Thermal effects, including heating rates, temperatures, thermal gradient, thermal  stresses and deformations, and changes in the physical and mechanical properties of the  material of construction shall be considered in the design of all pressure vessels and   pressurized structures.
   These effects shall be based on temperature extremes that simulate those  predicted for the operating environment plus a design margin as specified in Space and  Missile Systems Center (SMC) Standard, SMC -S-016, Test Requi rements for Launch,  Upper -stage, and Space Vehicles,  or equivalent.
  The design of hypergolic systems shall take into consideration limitations  imposed on individuals dressed in SCAPE during fill and drain operations.
   Redund ant pressure components and systems shall be separated from  main systems to decrease the chance of total system failure in case of damage, fire, or  malfunction.
   Pressure systems shall be shielded from other systems to protect against  hazards caused by proximity to combustible gases, heat sources, and electrical  equipment.
   Any failure in any such adjacent system shall not result in combustion,  explosi on, or release of pressure fluids.
   Safety critical pressure systems shall be designed so that special tools  shall not be required for removal and replacement of components unless it can be  shown that the use of special tools is unavoidable.
   Fixtures for safe handling and hoisting with coordinated attachment points  in the system structure shall be provided for equipment that cannot be hand carried and  attached.
   Components shall be designed so that, during the assembly of parts,  sufficient clearance exists to permit assembly of the components without damage to  seals, O -rings, or backup rings where they pass over threaded parts or sharp corners.
   Handling and hoisting loads shall be IAW the requirements in 29 CFR  1910, Chapter 6  of this volume, and Chapter 6 of SSCMAN 91 -710 Volume 6.
   All incompatible propellant system connections shall be designed to be  physically impossible to interconnect.
   All quick disconnect couplings shall be  designed with a factor of  safety of not less than 2.
   Quick disconnect coupling bodies and appropriate parts shall be  constructed of 304, 304L, 3 16, or 316L series stainless steel.
 All parts that contact  the fluid shall be compatible with the fluid.
   The quick disconnect ground -half coupling shall withstand being  dropped from a height of 6 feet on to a metal deck/grating or concrete floor without  leaking or becoming disassembled.
   When uncoupled, the quick disconnect shall seal the air -half and  ground -half couplings and shall not permit external leakage.
 Both halves of the  coupling shall seal under both low and high pre ssure.
 In cryogenic systems only,  quick disconnects used in vent coupling assemblies shall allow gaseous cryogenic  flow through the coupling whether connected or disconnected.
   When coupled, the quick disconnect shall permit fluid flow in ei ther  direction.
   The quick disconnect shall not permit external leakage during any  phase of coupling or uncoupling.
   The quick disconnect shall be designed so that coupling and  uncoupling can be performed with simple motions.
   The quick disconnect coupling shall contain a positive locking  device that will automatically lock the connection of the coupling halves.
 It shall  be possible by visual inspection to determine that the quick disconnect is  completely coupled  and locked.
 The quick disconnect shall not have any partially  coupled unlocked position in which the coupling can remain stable and permit fluid  flow.
   Special care shall be taken in the quick disconnect design to ensure  that the possibilit y of inadvertent uncoupling and/or coupling external leakage due  to side and axial loads is minimized.
   The quick disconnect shall be designed to couple/uncouple without  imparting adverse loads on the vehicle fluid lines that could cause fl ight hardware  damage.
   Quick disconnects shall be designed to ensure that all incompatible  fuel and oxidizer couplings cannot be inadvertently connected, causing mixing of  propellants.
   All quick disconnect ground half couplings shall be identified IAW  the requirements of paragraph  11.
   Pressure fluid reservoirs shall be shielded or isolated from combustion  apparatus or other heat sources.
   In general, tubing and piping shall be located so that damage cannot occur  due to being stepped on, used as handholds, or by manipulati on of tools during  installation.
   Straight tubing and piping runs shall be avoided between two rigid  connection points.
   Where such straight runs are necessary, provisions shall be made for  expansion joints, motion of the units, o r similar compensation to ensure that no  excessive strain is applied to the tubing and fittings.
   Line bends shall be used to ease stresses induced in tubing by alignment  tolerances and vibration.
   Flexible hoses shall be used only when required to provide movement  between interconnecting fluid lines when no other means are availa ble.
   Flexible hose systems shall be designed to prevent kinking, avoid abrasive  chafing from the restraining device, and avoid abrasive contact with adjacent structure  or moving parts that may cause reduction in strength.
   Flexib le hoses shall not be supported by rigid lines or components if  excessive loads from flexible hose motion can occur.
   Flexible hose assemblies shall not be installed in a manner that will place  a mechanical load on the hose or hose fittings to  an extent that will degrade hose  strength or cause the hose fitting to loosen.
   Flexible hoses shall be designed such that the bend radius is no less safe  than the minimum bend radius recommended in authoritative specifications for the  partic ular hose.
   Flexible hoses shall not be exposed to internal temperatures that exceed  the rated temperature of the hose.
   Flexible hoses that Range Safety permits to pass close to a heat source  shall be protected.
   All flexible hoses that are not lined shall be subjected to a flow -induced  vibration analysis.
   Flexible hoses shall consist of a flexible inne r pressure carrier tube  (compatible with the service fluid) constructed of elastomeric (typically poly - tetrafluoroethylene [PTFE]) for hypergolic fluid) or corrugated metal (typically 300  series stainless steel) material reinforced by one or more layers of  300 series stainless  steel wire and/or fabric braid.
   Flexible hose restraining devices shall be designed and demonstra ted to  contain a force not less than 1.
 A thrust equation  using pressure, area, and momentum is the approach best founded in physics and shall  be used for calculating the open force line pressure.
   The r estraint design safety factor shall not be less than 3 on  material yield strength.
   Hose clamp -type restraining devices shall not be used.
   Flexible hose installations shall be designed to produce no stress or strain  in the ha rd lines or components.
 Stresses induced because of dimensional changes  caused by pressure or temperature variations or torque forces induced in the flexible  hose shall be included.
   Manually operated valves shall be located to permit operation from the  side or above to prevent spillage of “hazardous” service fluid on the operator due to  leak or failure of the valve seals.
   For remotely controlled no n-pyrotechnically actuated valves, positive  indication of actual valve position shall be displayed at the control station.
   Vent lines for flammable and combustible vapors shall be extended away  from work areas to prevent accidental ignition of vapors and/or injury to personnel.
   Safety valves and burst diaphragms shall be located so that their operation  cannot cause inju ry to personnel standing close by or damage to the installation or  equipment, or they shall be equipped with deflection devices to protect personnel and  equipment.
   Lines, drains, and vents shall be separated or shielded from other high - energy  systems, for example, heat, high voltage, combustible gases, and chemicals.
   Drain and vent lines shall not be connected to any other lines in any way  that could generate a hazardous mixture in the drain/vent line or allow feedback of  hazardo us substances to the components being drained or vented.
   Systems containing liquid explosives, flammable liquids, or explosive  waste shall be designed so that a complete offload/drainage of the system is achievable  by gravity or pneumatics.
   For systems designed for gravity drainage, the pipe/tube slope shall be not  less than 1/4 inch per foot at any point.
   The drain system shall incl ude a sump or basin where the fluid can safely  collect.
 This sump or basin shall be designed so that it can be easily cleaned, and  drainage easily removed.
   If required, test points shall be provided so that disassembly for test is not  required.
   The test points shall be easily accessible for attachment of ground test  equipment.
   Common -plug test connectors for pressure and return sec tions shall be  designed to require positive removal of the pressure connection before unsealing the  return connections.
   Individual pressure and return test connectors shall be designed to  positively prevent inadvertent cross -connections.
   All rigid pipe and tubing assemblies shall be supported by a firm structure to  restrain destructive vibration, shock, and acceleration.
   Components within a system shall be supported by a firm structure and not the  connecting tubing or piping unless it can be shown by analysis that the tubing or piping  can safely support the component.
   Pipe and tube accessories such as supports, anchors, a nd braces shall be  compatible with hypergolic vapors when installed in a hypergolic propellant system.
   All threaded parts in safety critical components shall be securely locked to resist  uncoupling forces by acceptable safe design methods.
   Torque for threaded parts in safety critical components shall be specified.
   Friction -type locking devices shall be avoided in safety critical applications.
   Star washers and jam nuts shall not be used as locking devices.
   The design of internally threaded bosses shall preclude the possibility of  damage to the  component or the boss threads because of screwing universal fittings to  excessive depths in the bosses.
   Retainers or snap rings shall not be used in pressure systems where failure of  the ring would allow connection failures or blow -outs caused  by internal pressure.
   Snubbers shall be used with all bourdon -type pressure transmitters, pressure  switches, and pressure gauges, except air pressure gauges.
   Hazardo us pressure systems shall be designed so that the flight system being  loaded or unloaded and the ground support loading system can be commonly grounded and  bonded during transfer operations.
 When the flight system and the ground system are  connected, maxim um DC resistance from any flight system tubing or tanks to the nearest  earth electrode plate shall be 1 ohm (1 Ω) or less.
   Propellant system component s and lines shall be grounded to metallic  structures.
   All hazardous pressure systems shall be electrically bonded to the flight vehicle  to minimize the DC resistance between the hazardous pressure system and the flight  vehicle.
   Materials shall be compatible throughout their intended service life with  the service fluids and the materials used in the co nstruction and installation of tankage,  piping, and components as well as with nonmetallic items such as gaskets, seals,  packing, seats, and lubricants.
   At a minimum, material compatibility shall be determined in regard to  flammability, ignit ion and combustion, toxicity, and corrosion.
   Materials that could come in contact with fluid from a ruptured or leaky  tank, pipe, or other components that contain hazardous fluids shall be nonflammable  and non -combustible.
   Compa tible materials selection shall be obtained from one of the  following sources:   12.
 When compatibility data cannot be obtained from  Range Safety approved source, compatibility tests shall be performed.
 Test procedures, SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  101  pass/fail criteria, and test results shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and  approval.
 The Range User shall prepare a compatibility  analysis containing the following information:   12.
   Material "A" allowable values shall be used for pressure vessels and  pressurized structures where failure of a single load path would result in loss of  structural integrity.
   The fracture toughness shall be as high as practical within the context of  structural efficiency and fracture r esistance.
   For pressure vessels and pressurized structures to be analyzed with linear  elastic fracture mechanics, fracture properties shall be accounted for in material  selection.
   Materials that have a low K ISCC in the expected operating environments  shall not be used in pressure vessels and pressurized structures unless adequate  protection  from the operating environments can be demonstrated by tests and reviewed  and approved by Range Safety.
   If the material has a K ISCC less than 60% of the plane -strain fracture  toughness, K IC under the conditions of its application, it shall b e mandatory to show,  by a “worst case” fracture mechanics analysis, that the low threshold stress intensity  factor cannot precipitate premature structural failure.
  Adequate levels of contamination control shall be established by relating the  cleanliness requirements to the actual needs and nature of the system and components.
   Components and systems shall be protected from contaminants by  filtration, sealed modules, clean fluids, and clean environment during assembly, storage  installation, and use.
   Systems shall be designed to allow verification that the lines and  components are clean after flushing and purging the system.
   Systems shall be designed to ensure that contaminants or waste fluids can  be flushed and purged after fill and drain operations.
   All hazardous pressure system components shall be designed for safe endurance  against hazardous failure modes for not less than 400% of the total number of expected  prelaunch cycles.
   The safe -life for pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall be established  assuming the existence of pre -existing initial flaws or cracks in the vessel and shall cover  the maximum expected operating loads and environments.
 The safe -life shall be at  least 4  times the specified life for those pressure vessels not accessible for periodic inspection and  repair.
   For those pressure vessels and pressurized structures that are readily accessible  for periodic inspection and repair, the safe -life, as determined by analysis and test, shall be  at least four times the interval between scheduled inspection and/or refurbishment.
 Metallic materials shall be selected on the basis of prov en  environmental compatibility, material strengths, fracture properties, fatigue -life, and crack  growth characteristics consistent with the overall program requirements.
 Metallic material evaluation shall be conducted based on the  following considerations:   12.
   The metallic materials selected for design shall be evaluated with respect  to material processing, fabrication methods, manufacturing operations, refurbishment  procedures and processes, and other pertinent factors tha t affect the resulting strength  and fracture properties of the material in the fabricated as well as the refurbished  configurations.
   The evaluation shall ascertain that the mechanical properties, strengths,  and fracture properties used in des ign and analyses shall be realized in the actual  hardware and that these properties are compatible with the fluid contents and the  expected operating environments.
   Materials that are susceptible to stress -corrosion cracking or hydrogen  embrit tlement shall be evaluated by performing sustained threshold -stress -intensity  tests when applicable data are not available   12.
 Metallic material characterization shall be based on the  following considerations:   12.
   The al lowable mechanical properties, strength and fracture properties of  all metallic materials selected for pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall be  characterized in sufficient detail to permit reliable and high confidence predictions of  their struc tural performance in the expected operating environments unless these  properties are available from reliable or other sources approved by the procuring SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  103  agency.
   Where material properties are not available, they shall be determined by  test methods approved by the procuring agency.
   The characterization shall produce the following strength and fracture  properties for the parent metals, weldments, and heat -affected zones as a functio n of  the fluid contents, loading spectra, and the expected operating environments, including  proof test environments, as appropriate:   12.
   Proven test procedures shall be used for determining  material fracture  properties as required.
 These procedures shall conform to recognized standards.
   The test specimens and procedures used shall provide valid test data for  the in tended application.
   Enough tests shall be conducted so that meaningful nominal values of  fracture toughness and crack growth rate data corresponding to each alloy system,  temper, product form, thermal and chemical environments, and loading sp ectra can be  established to evaluate compliance with safe -life requirements.
   If the conventional fatigue analysis is to be performed, the stress -life (S - N) or the strain -life (Se -N) fatigue data shall be generated IAW the standard test  method s developed by ASTM.
   Proven processes and procedures for fabrication and repair shall be used  to preclude damage or material degradation during material processing, manufacturing  operations, and re furbishment.
   In particular, the melt process, thermal treatment, welding process,  forming, joining, machining, drilling, grinding, repair and rewelding operations, and  other operations shall be within the state -of-the-art and have been used o n currently  approved hardware.
   The fracture toughness, mechanical and physical properties of the parent  materials, weldments and heat -affected zones shall be within established design limits  after exposure to the intended fabrication processe s.
   The machining, forming, joining, welding, dimensional stability during  thermal treatments, and through -thickness hardening characteristics of the material  shall be compatible with the fabrication processes to be encountered.
   Fracture control requirements and precautions shall be defined in  applicable drawings and process specifications.
   Detailed fabrication instructions and controls shall be provided to ensure  proper implementation of the fracture control requirements.
  Special precautions shall be exercised throughout the manufacturing  operations to guard against processing damage or other structural degradation.
 In  addition, procurement requirements and controls shall be implemented to ensure that  suppliers and subc ontractors use fracture control procedures and precautions consistent  with the fabrication and inspection processes intended for use during actual hardware  fabrication.
   A quality assurance (QA) program shall be established to ensure that the  necessary NDE and acceptance tests are effectively performed to verify that the product  meets the requirements of this publication.
   The program shall ensure that materials, parts, subassemblies, assemblies, and  all completed and refurbished hardware conform to applicable drawings and process  specifications; that no damage or degradation has occurred during material processing,  fabrication, inspection, acceptance tests, shipping, storage, operational use, and  refurbishment; and that defects that could cause failure are detected or evaluated and  corrected.
 At a minimum, the following considerations shall  be included in structuring the quality assurance program:   12.
   An inspection master plan shall be established before the start of  fabrication.
   The plan shall specify appropriate inspection points and inspection  techniques for use throughout the program, beginning with material procurement and  continuing through fabrication, assembly, acceptance proof test, operation, and  refurbishment, as appropriate.
   In establishing inspection points and inspection techniques, consideration  shall be given to the material characteristics, fabrication processes, design concepts,  structural configuration, and accessibility for inspection of flaw.
   For metallic h ardware, the flaw geometries shall encompass defects  commonly encountered, including surface crack at the open surface, corner crack or  through -the-thickness crack at the edge of fastener hole, and surface crack at the root  of intersecting prismatic struct ural elements.
   Acceptance and rejection standards shall be established for each phase of  inspection and for each type of inspection technique.
   For COPVs and other composite hardware, laminate defects, such as  delamination, fiber  breakage, surface cuts, porosity, air bubbles, cracks, dents, and  abrasions, shall be considered.
   All inspections shall be performed by inspectors qualified and certified in  inspection techniques according to the ASNT recommended practices ( SNT -TC-1A)  or Range Safety approved equivalent.
   For COPVs, inspectors shall also be certified to ASNT Level II (or Range  Safety approved equivalent) and shall be familiar with laminate production processes  and composite shell defects.
 Inspect ors shall be certified to inspect specific types of  COPVs using specific inspection techniques in accordance with ASNT standards.
 At a minimum, the following considerations shall be  included in determining the appropriate  inspection techniques:   12.
   The selected NDE inspection techniques shall have the capability to  determine the size, geometry, location, and orientation of a flaw or defect; to obtain,  where multiple flaws exist, the location of each with respect to the other and the  distance between them; and to differentiate among defect shapes, from tight cracks to  spherical voids.
   Two or more NDE methods shall be used for a part or assembly that  cannot be adequately examined by only one method.
   The flaw detection capabil ity of each selected NDE technique shall be  based on past experience on similar hardware.
   Where this experience is not available or is not sufficiently extensive to  provide reliable results, the capability, under production or operational ins pection  conditions, shall be determined experimentally and demonstrated by tests approved by  the procuring agency on representative material product form, thickness, and design  configuration.
   The flaw detection capability shall be expressed i n terms of detectable  crack length, crack depth, and crack area.
 For COPVs, the detection of laminate defects,  such as delamination, fiber breakage, and air bubbles, shall also be addressed.
   The most appropriate NDE technique(s) for detecting commonly  encountered flaw types shall be used for all metallic pressure vessels, COPVs,  pressurized structures, and other hardware based on their flaw detection capabilities.
 At a minimum, inspection data shall be dispositioned as  follows:   12.
   Inspection data in the form of flaw histories shall be maintain ed  throughout the life of the pressure vessel or pressurized structure.
 The inspection data  shall be stored in the system certification file.
   The result of this assessment shall form the basis of any required  corrective action.
   For suspect COPVs, a Material Review Board (MRB) shall be initiated to  evaluate the NDE results and disposition.
 The MRB shall consist of the procuring  agency (Range User), the COPV manufacturer, and Range Safety.
 The MRB shall use  NDE comparison, past exp erience, additional NDE, and other qualitative and  quantitative methods to determine the acceptability of a suspect vessel.
 Data collected  from the MRB process shall be input into the inspection database and system  certification file.
   All pressure vessels, pressurized structures, and pressure components  shall be proof pressure tested IAW the requirements of paragraph  12.
   For pressure vessels, pressurized structures, and other pressurized  components, the temperature shall be consistent with the critical use temperature; or,  as an alternative, tests may be conducted at an alternat e temperature if the test pressures  are suitably adjusted to account for temperature effects on strength and fracture  toughness.
   Proof test fluids shall be compatible with the structural materials in the  pressure vessels and pressurized struc tures.
   Proof test fluids shall not pose a hazard to test personnel.
   If such compatibility data is not available, required testing shall be  conducted to demonstrate that the proposed test fluid does not deteriorate the test  article.
   Accept/reject criteria shall be formulated before the acceptance proof test.
   Every pressure vessel and pressurized structure shall not leak, rupture, or  experience gross yielding during acceptance testing.
   Safe operating limits shall be established for each pressure vessel and each  pressurize d structure based on the appropriate analysis and testing used in its design  and qualification IAW paragraphs  12.
   These safe operating limits shall be summarized in a format that provides  rapid visibility of the important structural characteristics and capability.
   Operating procedures shall be established for each pressure vessel and  pressurized structure.
   These procedures shall be compatible with the safety require ments and  personnel control requirements at the facility where the operations are conducted.
   Step-by-step directions shall be written with sufficient detail to allow a  qualified technician or mechanic to accomplish the operations.
   Schematics that identify the location and pressure limits of relief valves  and burst discs shall be provided when applicable, and procedures to ensure  compatibility of the pressurizing system with the structural capability of the pressurized  hardware shall be established.
   Before initiating or performing a procedure involving hazardous  operations with pressure systems, practice runs shall be conducted on non -pressurized  systems until the operating procedures are well rehearsed.
   Initial tests shall then be conducted at pressure levels not to exceed 50%  of the normal operating pressures until operating characteristics can be established and  stabilized.
   Only qualified and trained personnel shall be assign ed to work on or with  high pressure systems.
   Warning signs with the hazard(s) identified shall be posted at the  operations facility before pressurization.
   The results of the appropriate stress and safe -life analyses shall be used in  conjunction with the appropriate results from the structural development and  qualification tests to develop a quantitative approach to inspection and repair.
  Allowable damage limits shall be established for each pressure vessel and  pressurized structure so that the required inspection interval and repair schedule can be  established to maintain hardware to the requirements of this volume.
   NDE te chnique(s) and inspection procedures to reliably detect defects and  determine flaw size under the condition of use shall be developed for use in the field  and depot levels.
   Procedures shall be established for recording, tracking, and analyzin g  operational data as it is accumulated to identify critical areas requiring corrective  actions.
   Analyses shall include prediction of remaining life and reassessment of  required inspection intervals.
   When inspections reveal structural damage or defects exceeding the  permissible levels, the damaged hardware shall be repaired, refurbished, or replaced,  as appropriate.
   When pressure vessels and pressurized structures are put into storage, they  shall be protected against exposure to adverse environments that could cause corrosion  or oth er forms of material degradation.
   Pressure vessels and pressurized structures shall be protected against  mechanical degradation resulting from scratches, dents, or accidental dropping of the  hardware.
   Induced stresses due to sto rage fixture constraints shall be minimized by  suitable storage fixture design.
   In the event storage requirements are violated, recertification shall be  required before acceptance for use.
   Pressure vessels and pressurized structures that are reactivated for use  after an extensive period in either an unknown, unprotected, or unregulated storage  environment shall be recertified to ascertain their st ructural integrity and suitability for  continued service before commitment to flight.
   Recertification tests for pressurized hardware shall be IAW the  appropriate Recertification Test Requirement.
   Based on the results of the failure mode determination, one of two distinct  verif ication paths shall be satisfied:   12.
   The LBB failure mode shall be demonstrated analytically or by test showing that  an initial surface flaw with a shape (a/2c) ranging from 0.
   Fracture mechanics shall be used if the failure mode is determined by analysis.
   Unless otherwise specified, the minimum burst factor shall be 1.
3 , conventional fatigue -life analysis shall be performed, as  appropriate, on the unflawed structure to ascertain that the pressure vessel, acted upon  by t he spectra of operating loads, pressures, and environments meets the life  requirements.
   A life factor of 4 shall be used in the analysis.
   Qualification tests shall be conducted on flight quality hardware to  demonstrate structural adequacy of the design.
  The test fixtures, support structures, and methods of environmental  application shall not induce erroneous test conditions.
   The types of instrumentation and their locations in qualification tests shall  be based on the results of the str ess analysis of paragraph  12.
   The instrumentation shall provide sufficient data to ensure proper  application of the accept/reject criteria, which shall be established b efore test.
   The sequences, combinations, levels, and duration of loads, pressure, and  environments shall demonstrate that design requirements have been met.
   Qualification testing shall include random vibration testing and pressure   testing.
 Random vibration qualification testing  shall be performed IAW the requirements of SMC -S-016 or equivalent unless it can  be shown that the vibration requirement is enveloped by other qualification testing  performed.
2 Requirements for applicati on of external loads in combination  with internal pressures during testing shall be evaluated based on the relative  magnitude and/or destabilizing effect of stresses due to the external load.
 If limit - combined tensile stresses are enveloped by test pressur e stresses, the application of  external loads shall not be required.
 If the application of external loads is required,  the load shall be cycled to limit for 4 times the predicted number of operating cycles  of the most severe design condition (for example, destabilizing load with constant  minimum internal pressure or maximum additive load with a constant maximum  expected operating pressure).
 Qualification test procedures shall be approved by  the procuring agency and the appropriate range approval authority.
 Every pressurized system element shall be proof  tested to verify that the material s, manufacturing processes, and workmanship meet design  specifications and that the hardware is suitable for flight.
   Acceptance tests shall be conducted on every pressure system element  before commitment to flight.
 Accept/reject criteria shall  be formulated before tests.
   The test fixtures and support structures shall be designed to permit  application of all test loads without jeopardizing the flightworthiness of the test article.
 A complete inspection by the selected  nondestructive examination (NDE) technique(s) shall be performed before the  proof pressure test to establish the initial condition of the hardware.
 Every pressure vessel shall be proof pressure  tested to verify that the item has sufficient structural integrity to sustain the  subsequent service loads, pressure, temperatures, and environments.
 The proof test  fixture shall simulate the struct ural response or reaction loads of the flight mounting  configuration when vessel mounting induces axial or radial restrictions on the  pressure driven expansion of the vessel.
 Test temperature shall be consistent with  the critical use temperature, or the te st pressure shall be adjusted to account for  temperature effects on material properties.
   The minimum proof pressure shall be:     P = (1 + Burst Factor)/2) x MEOP for a burst factor less than 2.
     The minimum hold time at proof pressure shall be five minutes.
 All refurbished pressur e system elements shall  be recertified after each refurbishment by the acceptance test requirements for new  hardware to verify their structural integrity and to establish their suitability for continued  service before commitment to flight.
 Pressure vessels  that have exceeded the approved  storage environment (temperature, humidity, time, and others) shall also be recertified by  the acceptance test requirements for new hardware.
   Safe-life de sign methodology based on fracture mechanics techniques shall  be used to establish the appropriate design factor of safety and the associated proof  factor for metallic pressure vessels that exhibit brittle fracture or hazardous LBB failure  mode.
  The loading spectra, material strengths, fracture toughness, and flaw  growth rates of the parent material and weldments, test program requirements, stress  levels, and the compatibility of the structural materials with the thermal and chemical  environmen ts expected in service shall be taken into consideration.
   Nominal values of fracture toughness and flaw growth rate data  corresponding to each alloy system, temper, and product form shall be used along with  a life factor of 4 on specified serv ice life in establishing the design factor of safety and  the associated proof factor.
   Unless otherwise specified, the minimum burst factor shall be 1.
3 , a safe -life analysis of eac h pressure vessel covering the maximum  expected operating loads and environments shall be performed under the assumption  of pre -existing initial flaws or cracks in the vessel.
   The analysis shall show that the metallic pressure vessel with flaw s placed  in the most unfavorable orientation with respect to the applied stress and material  properties, of sizes defined by the acceptance proof test or NDE and acted upon by the  spectra of expected operating loads and environments, meets the safe -life re quirements  of paragraph  12.
   Nominal values of fracture toughness and flaw growth rate data associated  with each alloy system, temper, product form, thermal and chemical e nvironments, and  loading spectra shall be used along with a life factor of 4 on specified service life in all  safe-life analyses.
   Pressure vessels that experience sustained stress shall also show that the  corresponding applied stress intensity  (KI) during operation is less than K ISCC in the  appropriate environment.
   These flaws shall not be less than the minimum detectable flaw sizes  established by the selected NDE method(s).
 Proof test logic shall not be used to  determine minimum flaw size.
   A life factor of 4 on specified service life shall be applied in the safe -life  demonstration testin g.
   A report that documents the fracture mechanics safe -life analysis or safe - life testing shall be prepared to delineate the following:   12.
   This report shall be closely coordinated with the stress analysis report.
 Qualification testing shall meet  requirements of paragraph  12.
7  except that the  test level shall be that defined by the fracture mechanics analysis.
 Surface and volume NDE  shall be performed before and after proof test on the weld joints as a min imum.
 The  pressure vessel shall not rupture or leak at the acceptance test pressure.
 Recertification testing shall meet  the requirements of paragraph  12.
 Qualification testing shall meet the  requirements of paragraph  12.
   A proof test shall be performed as specified in ASME Boiler and Pressure  Vessel Code.
   NDE shall be perform ed IAW the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code  and radiographic testing (RT) and/or ultrasonic testing (UT) as appropriate to quantify  defects in all full penetration welds after the proof test.
 Flight hardware COPVs  shall be designed using either Approach A or Approach B shown in Figure  12.
1 shall  have a design burst pressure equal to 1.
 The COPV failure mode shall be  demonstrated by applica ble fracture mechanics analysis, test, or similarity, as approved by  Range Safety.
   Manufacturers of COPVs using non -metallic liners or new composite  overwrap materials (other than carbon, aramid, or glass fibers in epoxy resins) and their  customers shall conduct the necessary development test program to demonstrate an  equivalent level of safety to that of conventional metal -lined COPVs.
   Based on the results of the failure mode determination, one of two distinct  paths shall be satis fied:  12.
   Failure mode and safe -life testing using coupons or subscale vessels shall  not b e used unless approved by Range Safety.
   For COPVs subjected to sustained load conditions, stress rupture life shall  be considered.
 The COPV shall not be susceptible to stress rupture or sustained creep  failure mechanisms.
 The predicted stress rupture life shall be at least 4 times the service  life (for the environment and pressure versus time profile history).
  Damag e control plan(s) shall be developed to  identify and mitigate credible sources of mechanical and other forms of damage to the  COPV during manufacturing and throughout service life.
 The DCP shall be developed in  accordance with ANSI/AIAA S -081B -2018, paragr aph 5.
3, and shall include the use of  protective covers.
 The ability of the DCP to mitigate credible sources  of damage to the COPV during  manufacturing and throughout the service life shall be  verified by test.
 Damage control test procedures shall be developed and performed in  accordance with ANSI/AIAA S -081B -2018, paragraph 10.
   The failure mode designation for COPVs shall be based on the liner and  the composite overwr ap.
   For metal -lined COPVs, the LBB failure mode shall be demonstrated by  applicable fracture mechanics analysis and/or test or similarity, as approved by Range  Safety.
 The effects of the liner sizing operation on the fracture mechanics  charact eristics of the metal liner shall be accounted for in the LBB evaluation.
 For non - metallic lined COPVs, the LBB failure mode shall be demonstrated by test.
   The demonstration of the LBB failure mode by test of a COPV shall include  a pre -flawed liner (flaw size determined by analysis of the liner material and flaw  detection capabilities of the selected NDE techniques).
 Surface cracks shall be put into  the liner at locations and orientations that are most critical to the LBB response.
 An  inert flu id shall be used to pressurize the COPV.
 Pressure cycles shall be applied to the  COPV with the upper pressure limit equal to the MEOP.
 The LBB failure mode shall  be demonstrated if one or more of the cracks leak pressure from the COPV at MEOP  before catast rophic failure occurs.
 The minimum burst factor shall be  1.
   After completion of the stress analy sis, a fatigue -life demonstration shall  be performed for the liner, bosses, and composite shell of an unflawed COPV.
 Fatigue - life shall be demonstrated either by test or analysis, as approved by Range Safety.
 The  test or analysis shall account for the spec tra of expected loads, pressures, and  environments.
   The minimum fatigue life for COPVs shall be 4 times the service life.
 The  planned number of cycles for the COPV service life shall account for a launch base  pressure test at 1.
 Qualification testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
  Acceptance testing shall be IAW paragraph  12.
 A complete inspection using visual and other  nondestructive examination techniques shall be performed before and after proof  testing.
 All inspections shall be conducted by specially trained COPV inspectors  certified IAW paragraph  12.
 Every COPV shall be proof tested IAW paragraph   12.
 Following completion of the autofrettage cycle and the  proof pressure test, every COPV shall be inspected internally for liner buckling,  debonding, or other gross internal defects.
 Before a COPV is used in  operations at an SSC range, a prelaunch inspection and pressure test shall be conducted  IAW paragraphs  12.
   Before the first pressurization of a COPV at the range, an inspection of the  vessel shall be conducted to determine if there is evidence of damage to the composite  shell.
 The inspection shall be  performed by an inspector certified IAW paragraph   12.
3  If this inspection is not possible at the launch base because the vessel is no  longer accessible, then it shall be conducted  the last time the vessel is accessible for  inspection.
   After arrival at the prelaunch processing facility and completion of the  inspection with no evidence of damage to the COPV, but prior to propellant loading or  pressurization, COPVs shall be pressure tested to 100% of the maximum ground  operating pressure.
 The minimum hold time for this pressure test shall be 5 minutes.
  This pressurization shall be conducted remotely, or a blast shield shall be used to  protect personnel.
 Recertification testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
 The minimum burst factor shall be 1.
3 , a safe -life demonstration of each pressure vessel, covering the maximum  expected operating loads and environments, shall be performed assuming pr e-existing  initial flaws or cracks in the vessel.
 For metal -lined COPVs, safe -life shall be  demonstrated either by test, analysis, similarity, or any combination thereof.
 For non - metallic lined COPVs, the safe -life shall be demonstrated by test, similarity , or both.
   Specifically, the analysis shall show that the metal -lined COPV (with liner  flaws placed in the most unfavorable orientation with respect to the applied stress and  material properties, of sizes defined by the NDE flaw detection capa bilities, and acted  upon by the spectra of expected operating loads) will meet the safe -life requirements  specified by paragraph  12.
   For metallic liners, the nominal val ues of fracture toughness and flaw  growth rate data associated with each alloy system, temper, product form, thermal and  chemical environments, and loading spectra shall be used in all safe -life analyses.
   Metal -lined COPVs that experience sust ained stress shall also show that  the corresponding stress intensity factor (K I) applied to the metal liner during the  operation is less than K ISCC in the appropriate environment.
 For all liner materials for  which data do not exist, the sustained load crac k behavior of the liner material shall be  determined by test for all fluids that are introduced into the COPV under pressure.
 For non -metallic lined COPVs, safe -life demonstrations shall be performed by  test.
   These flaws shall not be less than the minimum detectable flaw sizes  established by the selected NDE method(s).
 Proof test logic shall n ot be used to  determine minimum flaw size.
   The safe -life shall be 4 times the service life for all safe -life  demonstrations.
 The planned number of cycles for the COPV service life shall account  for a launch base pressure test at 1.
   A report that documents the fracture mechanics safe -life analysis (for metal  liners only) or safe -life testing shall be prepared to delineate the following:   12.
   This report shall be closely coordinated with the stress analysis report.
 Qualification testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
   Acceptance testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
   Additional prelaunch inspection and pressure testing at the launch site shall  be IAW paragraph  12.
   Every COPV shall b e proof tested at a pressure 1.
 Recertification testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph   12.
 The following data and documentation shall b e provided  for flight COPVs in addition to the data required in paragraph  12.
 However, the analysis and verification requirements specified in this part shall be  met.
3 , a conventional fatigue - life analysis shall be performed, as appropriate, on the unflawed structure to ascertain that  the pressure vessel, acted upon by the spectra of operating loads, pressures, and  environments  meet the life requirements.
 A life factor of 4 shall be used in the analysis.
   Qualification tests shall be conducted on flight quality hardware to  demo nstrate structural adequacy of the design.
   The test fixtures, support structures, and methods of environmental  application shall not induce erroneous test conditions.
   The sequences, combinations, levels, and duration of loads, pressure and  environments shall demonstrate that design requi rements have been met.
   Qualification testing shall include pressure cycle testing and burst testing.
   Requirements for application of external loads in combination  with internal pressure during testing shall be evaluated based on the relative  magnitude and on the destabilizing effect of stresses due to the external loads.
   Unless otherwise specified, the peak pressure shall be equal to  the MEOP during each pressure cycle, and the number of cycles shall be 4 times  the predicted number of operatin g cycles or 50 MEOP cycles, whichever is  greater.
   If the application of external loads is required, the load shall be  cycled 4 times the predicted number of operating cycles of the most severe  design condition (for example, destabilizing l oad with constant minimum  internal pressure or maximum additive load with MEOP).
   After the pressure cycle testing, the test article shall be  pressurized (pneumatically or hydrostatically, as applicable and saf e) to the  design burst pressure, while simultaneously applying the ultimate external  loads, if appropriate.
   The design burst pressure shall be maintained for a sufficient  period of time to ensure that the proper pressure is achieved.
  Every pressurized structure shall be proof tested to verify that the materials, manufacturing  processes, and workmanship meet design specifications and that the hardware is suitable  for flight.
 Acceptance testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
  Exception : If personnel are exposed to the structure when pressurized above 50% of 122 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   MEOP, the mi nimum proof factor shall be 1.
 If personnel are not exposed to the  structure when pressurized, the proof pressure factor shall be 1.
 Recertificatio n testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
   Safe-life analysis of each pressurized structure shall be  performed under  the assumption of pre -existing initial flaws or cracks in the structure as specified in  paragraph  12.
   In particular, the analysis shall show that the pressurized structure with  flaws placed in the most unfavorable orientation with respect to the applied stress and  material properties, of sizes defined by th e acceptance proof test or NDE and acted  upon by the spectra of expected operating loads, pressure, and environments meets the  safe-life requirements of paragraph  12.
   Nominal values of fracture toughness and flaw growth rate data associated  with each alloy system, temper, product form, thermal and chemical environments, and  loading spectra shall be used along with a life factor of 4 on specified service life in all  safe-life analysis.
   These flaws shall not be smaller than the minimum detectable flaw sizes  established by the selected NDE method(s).
 Proof test logic shall not be used to  determine minimum flaw size.
   A life factor of 4 on specified  pressure cycles in the service life shall be  applied in the safe -life demonstration testing.
 Qualification testing shall  include pressure  cycle testing and burst testing.
   Requirements for application of external loads in combination with  internal pressure during testing shall be  evaluated based on the relative magnitude  and on the destabilizing effect of stresses due to the external loads.
  Unless otherwise specified, the peak pressure shall be equal to the  MEOP during each pressure cycle, and the number of cycles shall be 4 times the  predicted number of operating cycles or 50 MEOP cycles, whichever is greater.
   If the ap plication of external loads is required, the load shall be cycled  4 times the predicted number of operating cycles of the most severe design  condition; for example, destabilizing load with constant minimum internal pressure  or maximum additive load with ME OP.
   After the pressure cycle testing, the test article shall be pressurized  (pneumatically or hydrostatically, as applicable and safe) to the design burst  pressure while simultaneously applying the ultimate extern al loads, if appropriate.
   The design burst pressure shall be maintained for a period of time  sufficient to ensure that the proper pressure is achieved.
   Unless otherwise specified, the minimum design burst pressure shall  be 1.
2  except that the  selected NDE techniques shall be capable of detecting flaws or cracks sm aller than the  allowable initial flaw size as determined by safe -life analysis.
   Surface and volumetric NDE shall be performed on welds before and after  proof testing if personnel are exposed to the structure when pressurized above 50% of  MEOP.
  If personnel will not be exposed to pressures greater than 50%, surface and  volumetric NDE shall be performed on welds after the proof test.
 Recertification testing shall meet the  requirements of paragraph  12.
 Pressure containers of the cryostat or dewar shall be demonstrated to exhibit  LBB failure mode IAW the following criteria:   12.
   The LBB failure mode  shall be demonstrated analytically or by test  showing that an initial surface flaw with a shape (a/2c) ranging from 0.
   Fracture mechanics shall be used if the failure mode is determined by  analysis.
 Unless otherwise specified, the minimum burst factor for the pressure  container of a cryostat shall be 1.
  Qualification tests shall be conducted on flight quality hardware to demonstrate structural  adequacy of the design.
 Random vibra tion testing shall be performed  on cryostats per the requirements of SMC -S-016.
 The cryostat (dewar) shall be pressurized to the design  burst pressure that is 1.
 The design burst  pressur e shall be maintained for a period of time sufficient to ensure that the proper  pressure was achieved.
 Cryostats shall be proof -pressure tested to 1.
 Surface and volumetric selected NDE  techniques shall be performed after the proof -pressure test.
 Recertification testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph   12.
 Outer shells (vacuum jackets) shall have pressure relief capability to  preclude rupture in the event of pressure container leakage.
 If pressure containers do not  vent external to the cryostats (or dewars) but instead vent into the volume contained by  outer shells, the relief devices of outer shells shall be capable of venting at a rate to release SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  125  full flow without outer shells rupturing.
 Relief devices shall be redundant and ind ividually  capable of full flow.
 Furthermore, pressure relief devices shall be certified to operate at the  required condition of use.
   Safe-life design methodology based on fracture mechanics techniques shall  be used to establish the appropriate design factor of safety and the associated proof  factor for m etallic pressure vessels that exhibit brittle fracture or hazardous leak -before - burst failure mode.
   The loading spectra, material strengths, fracture toughness, and flaw  growth rates of the parent material and weldments, test program requireme nts, stress  levels, and the compatibility of the structural materials with the thermal and chemical  environments expected in service shall be taken into consideration.
   Nominal values of fracture toughness and flaw growth rate data  correspondin g to each alloy system, temper, and product form shall be used along with  a life factor of 4 on specified service life in establishing the design factor of safety and  the associated proof factor.
   Unless otherwise specified, the minimum burst f actor shall be 1.
3 , safe -life analysis of each pressure container covering the  maximum expected operating loads and environments, shall be performed under the  assumption of pre -existing initial flaws or cracks in th e vessel.
   In particular, the analysis shall show that the metallic cryostat with flaws  placed in the most unfavorable orientation with respect to the applied stress and  material properties, of sizes defined by the acceptance proof test or NDE and acted  upon by the spectra of expected operating loads and environments, meet the safe -life  requirements of paragraph  12.
   Nominal values of fracture toughness and fla w growth rate data associated  with each alloy system, temper, product form, thermal and chemical environments, and  loading spectra shall be used along with a life factor of 4 on specified service life in all  safe-life analyses.
   Cryostats that experience sustained stress shall also show that the  corresponding applied stress intensity (K I) during operation is less than K ISCC in the  appropriate environment.
   These flaws shall not be smaller than the minimum detectable flaw sizes  established by the selected NDE method(s).
 Proof test logic shall not be used to  determine minimum flaw size.
   A life factor of 4 on specified  service life shall be applied in the safe -life  demonstration testing.
   A report that documents the fracture mechanics safe -life analysis or safe - life testing shall be prepared to delineate the following:   12.
   This report shall be closely coordinated with the stress analysis report.
 Qualification testing shall meet the requirements of  paragraph  12.
7  except that test level  shall be that defined by the fracture mechanics analysis whenever possible.
   At a minimum, surface and volumetric NDE techniques shall be performed  on all weld joints before and after the proof test.
  The pressure container shall not rupture or leak at the acceptance test  pressure.
 Recertification testing shall meet the requirements  of  paragraph  12.
   Outer shells (vacuum jackets) shall have pressure relief capability to  preclude rupture in the event of pressure container leakage.
 If pressure containers do  not vent external to the cryostats or dewa rs, but instead vent into the volume contained  by outer shells, the relief devices of outer shells shall be capable of venting at a rate to  release full flow without the outer shall rupturing.
 Pressure relief devices shall be  certified to operate at the re quired condition of use.
5 inches shall be 2.
5 inches, the minimum  burst factor shall be 4.
 Pressure testing  shall be conducted to demonstrate no failure at the design burst pressure.
   All fu sion joints or full penetration welds on the heat pipes that contain  hazardous fluids shall be inspected using acceptable surface and volumetric NDE  techniques.
   A proof pressure test shall be conducted to a minimum level of 1.
 Recertification  testing shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
 The heat pipe material shall  satisfy the material compatibility requirements defined in paragraph  12.
 The LBB failure  mode shall be demonstrated as defined in paragraph  12.
 Unless otherwise specified, the minimum burst factor shall be 1.
   Sealed containers containing non -electro nic equipment shall only be  subjected to pressure testing.
   For sealed containers containing safety -related electronic equipment,  other qualification tests including functional, thermal vacuum, thermal cycling,  random vibration, and pyro shock shall be conducted per SMC -S-016 or equivalent.
 Sealed containers shall be proof -pressure tested to a minimum level  of 1.
   All refurbished sealed containers shall be recertified after each  refurbishment by the acceptance test requirements for new hardware to verify their  structural integrity and to establish their suitabili ty for continued service before  commitment to flight.
   Sealed containers that have exceeded the approved storage  environment (temperature, humidity, time, and others) shall also be recertified by  the acceptance test requirements for new hardw are.
   Sealed containers that exhibit a brittle fracture failure mode or contain  hazardous fluid, or both, shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
   For sealed containers containing safety -related electronic equipment,  qualification tests including functional, thermal vacuum, thermal cycling, and pyro  shock shall be conducted in addition to random vibration and pressure testing.
5  Components subject to low or negative pressures shall be evaluated at 2.
   Components shall be sele cted to ensure that misconnections or reverse  installations within the subsystem are not possible.
 Color codes, labels, and directional  arrows shall be used to identify hazards and direction of flow.
   The maximum fluid temperature shall be estimated early in design as part  of data for selection of safety critical components, such as system fluid, pressurizing  gas, oil coolers, and gaskets.
   Components that are capable of safe actuation under  pressure equal to the  maximum relief valve setting in the circuit in which they are installed shall be specified.
   Pumps, valves and regulators, hoses, and all such prefabricated  components of a pressure system shall have proven pressure servi ce ratings equal to or  higher than the limit load (MEOP) and rated life of the system.
   The Standards of the Hydraulic Institute  shall be used in evaluating safety  in pump selection.
   Where leakage or fracture is hazardous to person nel or critical equipment,  valves shall be selected so that failure occurs at the outlet threads of valves before the  inlet threads or body of the valve fails under pressure.
   Pressure regulators shall be selected to operate in the center 50% o f their  total pressure range and avoid creep and inaccuracies at either end of the full operating  range.
   In all cases, flareless tube fittings shall be properly preset before pressure  application.
   Where system leakage can expose h ydraulic fluid to potential ignition  sources or is adjacent to a potential fire zone and the possibility of flame propagation  exists, fire -resistant or flame -proof hydraulic fluid shall be used.
  For oxygen systems of 3,000 psi or higher, valves and other components  that are slow opening and closing types shall be selected to minimize the potential for  ignition of contaminants.
   Such systems shall also require electrical grounding to eliminate the  possibility of the buildup of static electrical charges.
   Oxygen system components, design, and material selection shall conform  to ASTM MNL 36.
   Manually operated valves and regulators shall be selected so that  overtorquing of the valve stem of the regulator adjustment cannot damage soft seats to  the extent that failure of the seat will result.
   Valve designs that use uncontained seats are unacceptable and shall not be  selected.
   Warning devices that are activated by hazardous over or under pressure  shall be selected whenever necessary.
   The warning device shall either activat e automatic response mechanisms  or shall notify operational personnel of impending hazards.
   Warning devices to indicate hazardous over or under pressures to operating  personnel shall be specified.
   These warning devices shall actua te at predetermined pressure levels  designed to allow time for corrective action.
   Safety critical actuation of pneumatic systems shall not be adversely  affected by any back pressure resulting from concurrent operations of any other parts  of the system under any set of conditions.
   Components that can be isolated and contain residual pressure shall be  equipped with gage reading and bleed valves for pressure safety checks.
   Bleed valves shall be directed away from operatin g personnel.
   Pressurized reservoirs that are designed for gas/fluid separation with  provisions to entrap gas that may be hazardous to the system or safety critical actuati on  and prevent its recirculation in the system shall be specified.
 Specific instructions shall  be posted adjacent to the filling point for proper bleeding when servicing.
   Compressed gas emergency systems shall be bled directly to the  atmosphe re away from the vicinity of personnel rather than to reservoir.
   If the gas is combustible, consideration shall be given to the selection of  safety critical components and methods for reducing the potential for accidental  ignition or explosio n.
   Where necessary to prevent a hazardous sequence of operations and  provide a fail -safe capability at all times, interlocks shall be specified.
 For example, the  OPEN position of remotely controlled valves that can hazardously pressurize line s  leading to remotely controlled (or automatic) disconnect couplings shall be interlocked  to preclude the OPEN valve position coincident with the disconnected condition of the  couplings.
   Pressure systems that combine several safety critical f unctions shall have  sufficient controls for isolating failed functions for the purpose of safely operating the  remaining functions.
   All pressure systems shall have pressure indicating devices to monitor  critical flows and pressures marked to show safe upper and lower limits of system  pressure.
   The pressure indicators shall be located to be readily visible to the  operating  crew.
   All systems shall be protected for pressure above 500 psi in all areas  where damage can occur during servicing or other operational hazards.
   Pressure lines and components of 500 psi or higher that are adjacent to  safety c ritical equipment shall be shielded to protect such equipment in the event of  leakage or burst of the pressure system.
   Automatic disengagement or bypass shall be provided for pneumatic  systems that provide for manual takeover in the event of a hazardous situation.
   Positive indication of disengagement shall be provided.
   Safety critical pneumatic actuators shall have positive mechanical stops  at the extremes of safe motion.
   Adjustable orifice restrictor valves shall not be used in safety critical  pneumatic systems.
   Pneumatic components (other than tanks) for safety critical systems shall  exhibit safe endurance against hazardous failure m odes for not less than 400% of the  total number of expected cycles including system tests.
   The configuration of pneumatic components shall permit bleeding of  entrapped moisture, lubricants, particulate material, or other foreign matter hazardo us  to the system.
5 times delivery  pressure after allowance for loss of strength of the materials equivalent to not less than  that caused by 1,000 hours aging at 275° F shall be selected .
   Installation of all lines and components to withstand all expected  acceleration and shock loads shall be specified.
   The mounting of components, including valves, on structures having  sufficient strength to withstand torque and dynamic loads and not supported by the  tubing shall be specified.
   Tubing shall be supported by cushioned steel tube clamps or by multiple - block type clamps that ar e suitably spaced to restrain destructive vibration.
   Electrical components for use in potentially ignitable atmospheres shall be  demonstrated to be in capable of causing an explosion in the intended application.
   Electrically energized hydraulic components shall not propagate radio - frequency energy that is hazardous to other subsystems in the total system, or interfere  in the operation of saf ety critical electronic equipment.
   Pressure system components and lines shall be electrically grounded to  metallic structures.
   All solenoids shall  be capable of safely withstanding a test voltage of not  less than 1500 V rms at 60 Hz for 1 minute between terminals and case at the maximum  operating temperature of the solenoid in the functional envelope.
   Electric motor -driven pumps used in  safety critical systems shall not be  used for ground test purposes unless the motor is rated for reliable, continuous, and  safe operation.
   Pressure relief devices shall be specified on all systems having a pressure  source that can exceed the maximum allowable pressure of the system or where the  malfunction/failure of any component can cause the  maximum allowable pressure to  be exceeded.
0 are used in the design of flight  hardware pressure vessels, a m eans for automatic relief, depressurization, and pressure  verification of safety critical vessels in the event of launch abort shall be provided.
   Whenever any pressure volume can be confined and/or isolated by system  valving, an automatic pressure relief device shall be provided.
   Pressure relief devices shall vent toxic or inert gases to safe areas, away  from the vicinity of personnel.
 Scrubbers or vapor disposal systems shall also be used  at a safe distance from personnel.
   Hydrostatic testing systems for vessels that are not designed to sustain  negative internal pressure shall be equipped with fail -safe devices for relief of  hazardous negative pressure during the period of fluid removal.
   Vessels  that can be collapsed by a negative pressure shall have negative  pressure relief and/or prevention devices for safety during storage and transportation.
   Pressurized reservoirs shall be designed so that all ullage volumes are  connected to a r elief valve that shall protect the reservoir and power pump from  hazardous overpressure or back pressure of the system.
   The air pressure control for pressurized reservoirs shall be an externally  nonadjustable, pressure regulating device.
 If t his unit also contains a reservoir pressure  relief valve, it shall be designed so that no failure in the unit permits over pressurization  of the reservoir.
 Safety and  safety critical  contamination shall be prevented from entering or developing in flight  hardware pneumatic or hydraulic system components.
 Safety and safety critical systems  shall be designed to include provisions for detection, filtration, and removal of  contaminants.
  Where necessary, bleed ports shall be provided to remove accumulations  of residue or contaminants.
   High point bleed ports shall be provided where necessary for removal of  trapped gases.
   The bleed valve shall be directed away from operating personnel and  possible ignition sources.
   Components, cavities, or lines that can be isolated shall be equipped with  bleed valves that can be used to release retained pressure, or they shall indicate that  continued pressure exis ts in the system.
   Bleed valves used for reducing pressure on systems containing hazardous  fluids shall be routed to a safe disposal area.
   Auxiliary bleed ports shall be provided where neces sary to allow  bleed off for safety purposes.
   Bleeder valves shall be located so that they can be operated without  removal of other components, and shall permit the attachment of a hose to direct  the bleed -off fluid into a container.
   Reservoir filler caps shall include design provisions that shall  automatically bleed the reservoir on opening so that possible ullage pressure cannot  impart hazardous kinetic energy to either the filler caps, the fluid in the reservoir, or  the syste m.
   Safety critical pressure systems incorporating two or more directional  control valves shall be designed to preclude the possibility of inadvertently directing  the flow or pressure from one valve into the flow path or pressure path intended for  another valve, with any combination of valve settings possible in the total system.
   Control devices shall be designed to prevent overtravel or undertravel that  may contribute to a hazardous condition or damage to the valve.
   All pressure and volume controls shall have stops, or equivalent, to  prevent settings outside their nominal safe working ranges.
   Control components that have integral manually operated levers and stops  shall be capable of withstanding the following limit torques in Table  12.
   Components that h ave integrated manually operated levers shall provide  levers and stops capable of withstanding the limit torques specified by MIL -STD -1472.
   Levers and stops shall be provided on remote controls capable of  withstanding a limit torque of 1,800 inch-pounds.
   Because jamming is possible, sheathed flexible actuators shall not be used  for valve controls in safety critical pressure systems (for example, push -pull wires and  torque wires that are sheathed are not acceptable).
   Accumulators shall be designed IAW the pressure vessel standards for  ground systems and located for minimal probability of mechanical damage and for  minimum escalation of material damage or personnel injury in  the event of a major  failure such as tank rupture.
   Accumulator gas pressure gauges shall not be used to indicate system  pressure for operational or maintenance purposes.
   Gas type and pressure level shall be posted on, or immedi ately adjacent  to, the accumulator.
 Internal/external  pressure testing shall be conducted on all other pressure components to demonstrate no  failure at  the design burst pressure.
   All pressurized components such as valves, pipe, tubing, and pipe  and tube fittings shall be hydrostatically proof tested to a minimum of 1.
 This  approach shall be approved by Range Safety.
   Proof testing shall demonstrate that the componen ts sustain proof  pressure levels without distortion, damage, or leakage.
   Both the inlet and discharge sides of a relief valve shall be proof  tested.
   The following inspections shall be performed after proof testing:   12.
   Mechanical components such as valves and regulators shall be  inspected for external deformation, deterioration, or damage.
  Damaged, distorted, or deteriorated parts shall be rejected and  replaced and the test repeated.
   Functional and leak tests shall be performed at the component  MAWP after the proof test.
   Pneumatic pressure system componen ts shall undergo sufficient  qualification and acceptance testing to demonstrate that the system and components  meet design and safety requirements when subjected to prelaunch and launch  environments such as vibration, shock, acceleration, and temperature.
   Test plans and test reports shall be made available to Range Safety.
   Pressure relief valves shall be tested for proper setting and flow  capacity before installation and first use on the ranges.
   Pressure gauge s and transducers shall be hydrostatically tested to a  minimum of 1.
   Pressure gauges and transducers shall be calibrated before  installation.
 Prior  approval for pneumatic proof testing at the ranges shall be obtained from Range  Safety.
 All newly assembled pressure systems shall be hydrostatically tested to 1.
 Where this is not possible, Range Safety shall determine the  adequacy of component testing and alternate means of testing the assembled system.
   All ne wly assembled pressure systems shall be leak tested at the  system MOP/MEOP before first use at the ranges.
   This test shall be conducted at the ranges unless prior approval from  Range Safety has been obtained.
   The gas used during the leak test shall be the same as the  system fluid media except that for hazardous gas systems, a system -compatible,  non-hazardous gas may be used that has a density as near as possible to t he  system fluid; for example, helium should be used to leak test a gaseous  hydrogen system.
   Mechanical connections, gasketed joints, seals, weld seams,  and other items shall be visually bubble tight for a minimum of 1 minute when  an approved leak test solution is applied.
   All newly assembled pressure systems shall have a system 138 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   validatio n test and a functional test of each component at system MOP before first  use at the ranges.
   These tests shall be conducted at the ranges unless prior approval  from Range Safety has been obtained.
   These tests shall demonstrate the functional capability of all  non-passive components such as valves, regulators, and transducers.
   All prelaunch operational sequences for the system shall be  executed.
   All parallel or series redundant components shall be  individually tested to ensure single fault tolerant capabilities are functional  before launch.
   All shutoff and block valves shall be leak checked downstream  to verify thei r shutoff capability in the CLOSED position.
 All newly assembled pressure systems containing flammable and  combustible fluids shall be tested to verify that the requi rements of paragraph  12.
   Any pressure system element, including fittings or welds, that has  been repaired,  modified, or possibly damaged before having been proof tested, shall  be retested at proof pressure before its normal use.
   A modified or repaired pressure system shall be leak tested at the  system MOP/MEOP before its normal use.
   A modified or repaired pressure system shall be revalidated and  functionally tested at the system MOP before its normal use.
   If any p ressure system element such as a valve, regulator, gauges, or  tubing has been disconnected or reconnected for any reason, the affected system or  subsystem shall be leak tested at MOP/MEOP.
   Cycling capability for safety critical co mponents shall be not less than 400% of  the total number of expected cycles, including system tests, but not less than 2,000 cycles.
   For service above a temperature of 160°F, an additional cycling capability  equivalent to the above shall be requ ired as a maximum.
   Safety critical actuators shall have positive mechanical stops at the extremes of  safe motion.
   Hydraulic fluid reservoirs and supply tanks shall be equipped with remotely  operated shutoff valves.
   Shuttle valves shall not be used in sa fety critical hydraulic systems where the  event of a force balance on both inlet ports may occur, causing the shuttle valve to restrict  flow from the outlet port.
   Systems incorporating accumulators shall be interlocked to either vent or isolate  accumulator fluid pressure when power is shut off.
   Adjustable orifice restrictor valves shall not be used in safety critical systems.
   When two or more actuators are mechanically tied together, only one lock valve  shall be used to lock  all the actuators.
   Lock valves shall not be used for safety critical lockup periods likely to involve  extreme temperature changes unless fluid expansion and contraction effects are safely  accounted for.
1  is not possible in safety  critical systems, procedures shall be developed to detect air in actuators or other safety  critical components and to ensure that the syst em is properly bled before each use.
   Systems installations shall be limited to a maximum pressure of 15,000 psig.
  Note : There is no intent to restrain development of systems capable of higher pressures;  however, the use of such systems shall be  preceded by complete development and  qualification that includes appropriate safety tests.
   The inlet pressure of pumps in safety critical systems shall be specified to  prevent cavitation effects in the pump passages or outlets.
   Safety critical systems shall have positive protection against breaking the fluid  column in the suction line during standby.
   Systems for primary flight control of manned vehicles shall have redundant  features for all major aspects of operation and  control and be essentially independent of  systems non -critical to safety.
   Systems that provide for manual takeover shall automatically disengage or  allow by -pass of the act of manual takeover.
   Safety critical systems or alternate by -pass systems provided for safety shall not  be rendered inoperati ve because of back pressure under any set of conditions.
   The system shall be designed so that a lock resulting from an unplanned  disconnection of a self -seating coupling or other component shall not cause damage to the  system or to adjacent pro perty or injury to personnel.
   Systems using power -operated pumps shall include a pressure regulating device  and an independent safety relief valve.
   Thermal expansion relief valves shall be installed as necessary to prevent  system damage from thermal expansion of hydraulic fluid as in the event of gross  overheating.
   Internal valve leakage shall not be considered an acceptable method of  providing thermal relief.
   Thermal relief valve settings shall not exceed 150 psi above the value for  system relief valve setting.
   Vents shall outlet only to areas of relative safety from a fire hazard.
   Hydraulic blo w-out fuses (soft plugs) shall not be used in systems having  temperatures above 160° F.
   Pressure relief valves shall be located in the systems wherever necessary to  ensure that the pressure in any part of a power system shall not exceed the saf e limit above  the regulated pressure of the system.
   NPT connectors shall not be used in hazardous pressure system piping.
   Socket -welded flanges shall not be used in hazardous pressure system piping.
 All tubing and fitting welds shall be 100%  radiographically inspected before and after the pressure test and inspected by surface NDE  techniques before and after the p ressure test.
   Regulators shall be selected so that their working pressure falls within the center  50% of their total pressure range if it is susceptible to inaccuracies or creep at either end of  its pressure range.
   Pressure regulator actuators shall be capabl e of shutting off the fluid when the  system is at the maximum possible flow and pressure.
   Systems that contain regulators that are remotely operated during prelaunch  operations shall b e designed to be fail -safe if pneumatic or electric control power to the  regulator is lost.
   Valve actuators shall be operable under maximum design flow and pressure.
   Manually operated valves shall be designed so that overtorquing the valve stem  cannot damage soft seats to the extent that seat failure occurs.
   Valves that are not intended to be reversible shall be designed or marked so that  they shall not be connected in a reverse mode.
   All electrical control circuits for remotely actuated valves shall be shi elded or  otherwise protected from hazardous stray energy.
   Remotely controlled valves shall provide for remote monitoring of OPEN and  CLOSED positions during prelaunch operations.
   Systems that contain remotely operated valves shall be designed to be fail -safe  if pneumatic or electric control power to the valve is lost during prelaunch operations.
   Check valves shall be provided where back flow of fluids would create a hazard.
   Special care shall be taken in the desig n of oxygen systems to minimize the  heating effect due to rapid increases in pressure.
 Fast opening valves that can produce high  velocity kinetic effects and rapid pressurization shall be avoided.
   Valve stem travel on manual valves shall be lim ited by a positive stop at each  extreme position.
   The application or removal of force to the valve stem positioning device shall  not cause disassembly of the pressure -containing structure of the valve.
   A pressure indicating device shall be located on the downstream side of each  pressure regulator and on any storage system.
   These pressure indicating devices shall be designed to be remotely monitored  durin g prelaunch operations.
   Pressure relief devices shall be installed on all systems having an on -board  pressure source that can exceed the MAWP of any component downstream of that source  unless the system is single fault tolerant against overp ressurization during prelaunch  operations.
   Flight systems that require on -board pressure relief capability shall be designed  to the following minimum requirements:  142 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   12.
   The pressure relief device shall be installed as close as is practic al  downstream of the pressure reducing device or source of pressure such as compressor  and gas generator.
   The relieving capac ity of the relief device shall be equal to or greater than  the maximum flow capability of the upstream pressure reducing device or pressure  source and should prevent the pressure from rising more than 20% above the system  MOP.
   The relief device vent outlet piping shall be sized to prevent excessive back  pressure from adversely affecting the function of the relief device.
   All relief devices and associated piping shall be structurally restrained to  minimize any thrust  effects on the pressure system vessels or piping.
   The effects of the discharge from relief devices shall be assessed and  analyzed to ensure that operation of the device shall not be hazardous to personnel or  equipment.
   All pressure relief devices shall be vented separately unless the following  can be positively demonstrated:   12.
   No obstructions shall be placed downstream of the relief device.
   Relief devices shall be located so that other components cannot render them  inoperative.
   Pressure systems shall be designed so that pressure cannot be trapped in any part  of the system without ven t capability.
   Vent system outlets should be in a location normally inaccessible to personnel or  shall be conspicuously identified.
   Vent outlets shall be protected against rain intrusion and entry of birds, insects,  and animals.
  Oxidizer and fuel vent outlets to the atmosphere shall be separated sufficiently  to prevent mixing of vented fluids.
   All vent outlets shall be designed to prevent accumulation of vented gases in  dangerous concentrations (oxygen rich) in are as frequented by unprotected personnel.
   Hydrogen vents shall discharge to atmosphere through an approved burner.
   Special attention shall be given to the design of vent line supports at vent outlets  due to potential thrust loads.
  Each line venting into a multiple -use vent system shall be protected against back  pressurization by means of a check valve if the upstream system cannot withstand the back  pressure or where contamination of the upstream system cannot be tolerated.
   In addition to the  following requirements, flight hardware hydraulic systems shall meet the minimum design  fabrication and test requirements of paragraph  12.
   Where necessary, hydraulic system low -point s shall be provided a drain fitting  (bleed ports) to allow draining of condensates or residue for safety purposes.
   Bleed ports shall be located so that they can be operated without removal of other  components and shall permit the attachment of a hose to direct the bleed off material into  a container away from the positions of the operators.
   Test points shall be provided on hydraulic systems so that disassembly for test is  not required.
   Test points shall be easily accessible for the attachment of ground test equipment.
   For all power -generating components, pump pulsations shall be controlled to a  level that does not adversely affect system tubing, components, and support install ation.
   Where system leakage can expose hydraulic fluid to potential ignition sources,  fire resistant or flameproof hydraulic fluid shall be used.
 All accumulators  and reservo irs that are pressurized with gas to pressures greater than 100 psig shall be designed  IAW paragraph  12.
   A pressure indicating device shall be located on any pressurized storage system  with a pressure greater than 100 psig.
   These devices shall be designed to be remotely monitored during prelaunch  operations.
   Pressure relief devices shall be installed on all systems having an on -board  pressure source that can exceed the MAWP of any component downstream of that source  unless the system is single fault tolerant against overpre ssurization during prelaunch  operations.
   Flight systems that require on -board pressure relief capability shall meet the  following minimum requirements:  144 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   12.
   The pressure relief device shall be installed as close as practical  downstream o f the pressure sources such as pumps, turbines, or gas generators.
   Pressure relief devices shall be set to operate at a set pressure not to exceed  110% of the system MOP.
   The relieving capacity of the relief device shall be equal to or greater than  the maximum flow capability of the upstream pressure source and should prevent the  pressure from rising more than 20% above the system MOP.
   The effects of discharge from relief devices shall be assessed and analyzed  to ensure that operation of the device shall not be hazardous to personnel or equipment.
   Relief devices shall be located so that other components cannot render them  inoperative.
   No obstructions shall be placed downstream of the relief valve or burst disk  outlet.
 Hydraulic systems shall  be designed so that pressure and fluids cannot be trapped in any part of the system without  vent and/or drain capability.
 All s ystem  elements pressurized with gas to pressures greater than 100 psig shall be qualification tested  IAW paragraph  12.
   Tests shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
   Leak tests shall meet the requirements of paragraph  12.
   System validation and functional tests shall meet requirements of paragraph   12.
   Modified and repaired flight hardware shall meet the requirements of paragraph   12.
   Propellant systems shall have low point drain capability unless designed for  positive pressure purging.
   Low point drains shall be accessible and located in the system to provide the  capability of removing propellant from the tanks, piping, lines, and components at all times  after loading.
   Propellant systems shall be designed to be flushe d with compatible fluids and  purged with inert gas.
   For prelaunch failure modes that could result in a time -critical emergency,  provision shall be made for automatic switching to a safe mode of operation.
 Caution and  warning signals shall be pro vided for these time -critical functions.
   Propellant systems shall also comply with the pneumatic system requirements of  paragraph  12.
   Items used in any fuel or oxidizer system shall not be interchanged after exposure  to the respective media.
   Bi-propellant systems shall have the capability of loading and/or unloading the  fuel and oxidizer one at a time.
   Propellant (liquid or gas) migration into an associated pneumatic system shall be  controlled.
   NPT connectors and fittings shall not be used in hypergolic system piping and  tubing.
   Socket weld flanges shall not be used in hypergolic system piping.
   All pipe and tub e welded joints shall be 100% radiographically inspected before  and after the acceptance pressure test and inspected by surface NDE techniques before and  after the pressure test.
   Valv e actuators shall be operable under maximum design flow and pressure.
   Flow control valves shall be designed to be fail -safe if pneumatic or electric  control power is lost during prelaunch operations.
   Check valves shall be provided whe re back flow of fluids would create a hazard.
   Valve connectors and connections shall be designed, selected, or located, or, as  a last resort, marked to prevent connection to an incompatible system.
   Remotely controlled valves shall provide for remote monitoring of open and  closed positions d uring prelaunch operations.
 Monitoring of remotely controlled,  pyrotechnically operated valve open and closed positions shall not be required if the  function power is deenergized (i.
   All electrical control circuits for remotely actuated valves shall be shielded or  otherwise protected from hazardous stray energy.
   Valves that are not intended to be reversible shall be designed or marked so that  they cannot be connected in a reverse mode.
   Manually operated valves shall be designed so that overtorquing the valve stem  cannot damage soft seats to the extent that seat failure occurs.
   Valve stem travel on manual valves shall be limited by a positive stop at each  extreme position.
   The application or removal of force to the stem positioning device shall not  cause disassembly of the pressure containing structure of the valve.
   All ele ctromechanical actuator electric wiring shall be sealed to prevent fluid  ignition.
   A pressure indicating device shall be located on any storage vessel and on any  section of the system where pressurized fluid can be trapped.
   These pressure indicating devices shall be designed to be remotely monitored  during prelaunch operations.
   Flexible hoses shall consist of a flexible inner pressure carrier tube (compatible  with the service fluid).
 This tube shall be constructed of elastomeric (typically poly - tetrafluoroethylene [PTFE]) or corrugated metal (typically 300 series stainless steel)   material reinforced by one or more layers of 300 series stainless steel wire and/or fabric  braid.
   Hose shall be dedicated to a service media.
 Interchanging of flexible hoses used  in incompatible service media, such as hypergolics, shall be avoided.
   Pressure relief devices shall be installed on all systems having an on -board  pressure source that can exceed the MAWP or MEOP of any component downstream of  that source unless the system is single fault tolerant against overpressurizati on during  prelaunch operation.
   Flight systems that require on -board pressure relief capability shall be designed  to the following minimum requirements:   12.
   The pressure relief device shall be installed as close as is practical  downstrea m of the pressure reducing device or source of pressure such as a compressor  or gas generator.
   The relieving capacity of  the relief device shall be equal to or greater than  the maximum flow capability of the upstream pressure reducing device or pressure  source and should prevent the pressure from rising more than 20% above the system  MOP/MEOP.
   The relief device v ent outlet piping shall be sized to prevent excessive back  pressure from adversely affecting the relief device function.
   All relief devices and associated piping shall be structurally restrained to  minimize any thrust effects to the pressure sys tem vessels or piping.
   The effects of the discharge from relief devices shall be assessed and analyzed  to ensure that operation of the device shall not be hazardous to personnel or equipment.
   All pressure relief devices shall be vented separately unless the following criteria  can be positively demonstrated:   12.
   No obstructions shall be placed downstream of the relief device.
   Relief devices shall be located so that other components cannot render them  inoperat ive.
   All vent effluent resulting from routine operations shall be scrubbed and/or  incinerated before venting to the atmosphere through vent stacks.
   Hypergolic systems shall be designed so that vapors or liquids cannot be trapped  in any part of the sy stem without vent and/or drain capability.
   Vent system outlets shall be in a location normally inaccessible to personnel and  shall be conspicuously identified.
   Vent outlets shall be protected against rain intrusion and entry of birds,  insects,  and animals.
   Oxidizer and fuel vent outlets to the atmosphere shall be separated sufficiently  to prevent mixing of vented fluids.
   Special attention shall be given to the design of vent line supports at vent outlets  due to po tential thrust loads.
   Each line venting into a multiple -use vent system shall be protected against back  pressurization by means of a check valve if the upstream system cannot withstand the back  pressure or where contamination of the upstream sys tem cannot be tolerated.
   Pressure relief vents shall be designed and located so that vapors cannot enter  any inhabited areas.
   Incompatible fluids shall not be discharged into the same vent or drain system.
   Fuel and oxidize r vent systems shall be equipped with a means of purging the  system with an inert gas to prevent explosive mixtures.
   All systems elements shall be qualific ation tested IAW paragraph  12.
 Prior approval for pneuma tic  proof testing at the ranges shall be obtained from Range Safety.
   All hypergolic valves shall be tested for both internal and external leakage at  their MAWP.
 Valves shall be visually bubble tight, using  approved soap solution and techniques.
 Internal leakage of valves shall not exceed  limits specified in the valve performance specification.
 All newly  assembled propellant pressure systems shall meet the t est requirements of paragraph   12.
   Pneumatic leak testing at system MOP/MEOP of all completely assembled  and cleaned vessel pipe and tubing sections, with components installed, shall be  completed before introduction of propellant.
   All mechanical joints such as gasket joints, seals, and threaded joints  and weld seams shall be visually bubble tight, using approved soap solution and  techniques.
 This test  shall be conducted at the ranges unless prior approval from Range Safety has been  obtained.
  All newly assembled pressure systems shall meet the system validation and f unctional  testing requirements of paragraph  12.
 All  newly assembled pressure systems shall meet the bonding and grounding requirements of  paragraph  12.
  Modified and repaired flight hardware propellant systems shall meet the test requirements of  paragraph  12.
   Propellant systems shall have low point drain capability.
   Low point drains shall be accessible and located in the system to provide  the capability of removing propellant from the tanks, piping, lines, and components.
   In addition , the cryogenic fuel system shall be designed to be purged with  inert fluids.
   Bi-propellant systems shall have the capability of loading the fuel and oxidizer  one at the time.
   For prelaunch failure modes that could result in a time -critical emergency,  provision shall be made for automatic switching to a safe mode of operation.
 Caution and  warning signals shall be provided for these time -critical functions.
   Pneumatic systems servicing cryogenic systems shall comply with th e  pneumatic pressure system requirements of paragraph  12.
   Cryogenic systems shall be designed to control liquefaction of air.
   For systems requiring insulation, nonfl ammable materials shall be used in  compartments or spaces where fluids and/or vapors could invade the area.
   Vacuum -jacketed systems shall be capable of having the vacuum verified.
   Precautions shall be taken to prevent cross -mixing of media through common  purge lines by use of check valves to prevent back flow from a system into a purge  distribution manifold.
 Cryogenic vessels and tanks  shall be designed IAW the requirements in paragraph  12.
   The amount and type of thermal insulation (insulation material or vacuum - jacketed) shall be determined from system thermal requirements.
  The use of slip -on flanges shall be avoided.
   Flanged joints in LH2 systems shall be seal welded.
   Flanged joint gaskets shall not be reused.
   Cryogenic systems shall provide for thermal expansion and contraction withou t  imposing excessive loads on the system.
   All pipe and tube welds shall be 100% radiographically inspected before and  after the acceptance pro of test.
 The accept/reject criteria shall be submitted to Range Safety  for review and approval.
   Cryogenic systems shall be designed to ensure icing does not render the valve  inoperable.
  Remotely controlled valves shall provide for remote monitoring of the open and  closed positions.
   Remotely operated valves shall be designed to be fail -safe if pneumatic or  electric control power is lost during prelaunch operations.
  All electrical control circuits for remotely actuated valves shall be shielded or  otherwise protected from hazardous stray energy.
   Manually operated valves shall be designed so that overtorquing the valve stem  cannot damage seats to the ex tent that seat failure occurs.
   Valve stem travel on manual valves shall be limited by a positive stop at each  extreme position.
   The application or removal of force to the stem positioning device shall not  cause disassembly of the pressure containing structure of the valve.
   Manual or remote valve actuators shall be operable under maximum design  flow and pressure.
  Valves that are not intended to be reversible shall be designed or marked so that  they cannot be connected in a reverse mode.
   Stem position local or remote indicators shall sense the position of the stem  directly, not the position of the actuating device.
   All electromechanical actuator electrical wiring shall be sealed to prevent fluid  ignition.
   A pressure indicating device shall be located on any cryogenic vessel and/or  tank and on any section of the system where cryogenic liquid can be trapped.
   These pressure indicating devices shall be designed to be remotely monitored  during prelaunch operations.
   Flexible hoses used in cryogenic system shall be of the single -wall, double - wall, or double -wall, vacuum -jacketed type.
   All convoluted portions of flexible hoses shall be covered with stainless steel  wire band.
   All cryogenic vessels and tanks shall be protected against overpressure by  means of at least one pressure relief valve.
   The pressure relief  device shall be installed as close as practical to the  cryogenic vessel or tank.
   Pressure relief valves shall be set to operate at set pressures determined  on a case -by-case basis by the Range User.
   The relieving capacity of th e relief valve shall be determined on a case - by-case basis by the Range User.
   All pressure relief devices shall be vented separately unless the following can  be positively demonstrated:   12.
   All relief devices and associated piping shall be structurally restrained to  eliminate any deleterious thrust effects on cryogenic system vessels or piping.
   The effects of the discharge from relief devices shall be assessed and analyzed  to ensure that operation of the device shall not be hazardous to personnel or equipment.
   No obstructions shall be placed downstream of the relief valves.
   Relief valves shall be located so that other components cannot render them  inoperative.
   GH2 shall be vented to atmosphere through a burner system.
   Cryogenic systems shall be designed so that fluids cannot be trapped in any part  of the system without drain or vent (relief valve o r vent valve) capability.
   Each line venting into a multiple -use vent system shall be protected against  back pressurization by a check valve if the upstream system cannot withstand the back  pressure or where contamination of the upstream system cannot be tolerated.
   Vents shall be placed in a location normally inaccessible to personnel and at a  height or location where venting is not normally deposited into habitable spaces.
   Each vent shall be conspicuously identified using appropriate warning signs,  label s, and markings.
   Vent outlets shall be located far enough away from incompatible propellant  systems and incompatible materials to ensure no contact is made during vent operations.
   Incompatible fluids shall not be discharged into the  same vent or drain system.
   Fuel vent systems shall be equipped with a means of purging the system with  an inert gas to prevent explosive mixtures.
   Vent outlets shall be protected against rain intrusion and entry of birds, insects,  and animals.
   Special attention shall be given to the design of vent line supports at vent  outlets due to potential thrust loads.
   All cryogenic vessels a nd tanks shall be qualification tested IAW paragraph   12.
   Flight hardware cryogenic system components shall meet the test requirements  of paragraph  12.
   Flight hardware cryogenic systems shall meet the test requirements of  paragraph  12.
  All newly assembled cryogenic systems shall be leak tested.
   The system shall be pressurized to the system MOP using gaseous helium for  LH2 systems and GN2 for LOX systems.
   Following the leak test, all newly assembled cryogeni c systems shall have a  system validation test performed at system MOP before first operational use at the ranges.
   The intended service fluid (LO2, LH2) shall be used as the validation  test fluid.
   The functional capability of all components and subsystems shall be  validated.
   All prelaunch operational sequences for the system shall be exercised,  including emergency shut down, safing, and unloading procedures.
   Vacuum readings of all vacuum volumes shall be taken and recorded  before, during, and after the test.
   Any cryogenic system element, including fittings or welds, which has been  repaired, modified, or possibly damaged before the system leak test shall be retested.
   The component retest sequence shall be as follows:   12.
   The c omponent shall be hydrostatically proof tested at ambient  temperature to 1.
   The component shall be reinstalled into the cryogenic system and a leak  check performed at system MOP or MEOP.
   The functional capability of the modified and/or repaired component  shall be revalidated using the intended service fluid at system MOP or MEOP.
   If any cryogenic system elements such as valves, regulators, gauges, or pipes  have been disconnected or reconnected for any reason, the affected connection shall be  leak checked at MOP.
5  shall be incorporated into  the MSPSP or submitted as a separate package when appropriate.
6  shall be placed in a system  certification file that shall be to be maint ained and updated by the hazardous pressure  system operator.
   This data shall be reviewed and approved by Range Safety before the first  operational use of hazardous pressure systems at the ranges.
   A material compatib ility analysis shall be performed IAW the requirements  specified in paragraph  12.
   General flight hardware pressure systems data shall be submitted IAW  Attachment  2, A2.
 Flight hardware  pressure system design data shall be provided IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   Component information shall be placed in tables.
   All test plans, test procedures and test reports required by this chapter shall be  submi tted to Range Safety for review and approval.
   A list and synopsis of all hazardous pressure system test procedures shall be  submitted to Range Safety for review and approval.
  Certification files shall be maintained and updated by the hazardous pressure  system operator.
   These files shall be located at the ranges.
   The certification file for each hazardous pressure system shall contain the data  required in paragraphs 12.
   Items that have not previously been classified and cannot be classified based on  similarity with previously classified items shall be tested in accordance with AFTO 11A - 1-47/ (NAVSEAINST 8020.
   Ordnance items shall also have a DOT classification.
   The Range User shall provide the DoD and DOT documentation demonstrating  proper classification to Range Safety for review and approval before delivering ordnance  to the ranges.
4S ordnance and ordnance systems, considered as articles that present no significant  hazard, do not have to meet the design requirements identified in this chapter; however, they shall  meet the operational requirements identified in SSCMAN 91-710 Volume 6.
   Ordnance devices and systems shall be designed to preclude inadvertent firing of any  explosive or pyrotechnic components when subjected to environments such as shock,  vibration, and static electricity encountered during ground pro cessing.
   A FMECA shall be performed on all ordnance systems.
   Ordnance system circuitry shall be protected to preclude energy sources such as  electrom agnetic energy or stray light from the ranges and/or launch vehicle from causing  undesired output of the system.
   Hazardous ordnance systems shall be designed so that the initiating devices can  be installe d in the system just before final electrical and/or optical hookup on the launch  pad.
   Initiating device locations shall be accessible to facilitate installation and  removal and electrical and/or optical connections as late as possible in the launch  countdown.
   Launch complexes shall be designed to accommodate this accessibility  requirement.
   RF energy shall not be used to ignite initiating devices.
   Electrical firing circuits shall be isolated from the initiating ordn ance case,  electronic case, and other conducting parts of the vehicle.
   If a circuit is grounded, there shall be only one interconnection (single  ground point) with other circuits.
   This i nterconnection shall be at the power source only.
   Other ground connections with equivalent isolation shall be handled on a  case-by-case basis.
   Ungrounded circuits capable of building up static charge shall be connected to  the struct ure by static bleed resistors of between 10 kilo -ohms (10 kΩ) and 100 kilo -ohms  (100 kΩ).
   Firing circuit design shall preclude sneak circuits and unintentional electrical  paths due to such faults as ground loops and failure of solid -state switch es.
   The elements of a redundant circuit shall not be terminated in a single connector  where the  loss of such connector will negate the redundant feature.
   Shields shall not be used as intentional current -carrying conductors.
   Electric al firing circuits shall be completely shielded or shielded from the  initiating ordnance or laser firing unit (LFU) back to a point in the firing circuit at which  filters or absorptive devices eliminate RF entry into the shielded portion of the system.
   RF shielding shall provide a minimum of 85% of optical coverage ratio.
   There shall be no gaps or discontinuities in the termination at the back faces of  the connectors or apertures in any container that houses elements of the firing circuit.
   Electrical shields terminated at a connection shall be j oined around the full 360  degree circumference of the shield.
   All metallic parts of the initiating ordnance subsystem that are physically  connected shall be bonded with a DC resistance of less than 2.
   Firing, cont rol, and monitor circuits shall all be shielded from each other.
   Twisted shielded pairs shall be used unless other configurations such as coaxial  leads can be shown to be more effective.
   For low voltage circuits, insu lation resistance between the shield and conductor  at 500 VDC minimum shall be greater than 2 megaohms (2 MΩ).
   For high voltage circuits, insulation resistance between the shield and conductor  at 150% of rated output voltage or 500 volts, whiche ver is greater, shall be greater than 50  megaohms (50 MΩ).
   Wires shall be of sufficient size to adequately handle 150% of the design load  for continuous duty signals (100 seconds or more) on the safety critical circuit.
   The outer shells of electrical connectors shall be made of metal.
   Electrical and optical connectors shall be selected to eliminate the possibility of  mismating.
   Electrical and optical connectors shall be of the self -locking type o r lock wiring  shall be used to prevent accidental or inadvertent demating.
   The design shall ensure that the shielding connection for an electrical connector  is complete before the pin connection.
   Circuit assignments and the isolation of firing pins within an electrical connector  shall be so that any single short circuit  occurring as a result of a bent pin shall not result in  more than 10% of the no -fire current.
 Unless otherwise agreed to by Range Safety, a bent  pin analysis shall be performed on all electrical connectors.
   There shall be only one wire per pin and in no case shall an electrical connector  pin be used as a terminal or tie -point for multiple connections.
   Source circuits shall terminate in an electrical connector with female contacts.
   Electrical connectors shall not rely on spring force to mechanically lock mating  halves together if they are to be used on safety critical circuits.
   Electrical connectors shall be capable of adequately handling 150% of the  designed electrical l oad continuous duty signal (100 seconds or more) on safety critical  circuits.
   Optical connectors and receptacles shall be provided with self -locking  protective covers or caps that shall be installed except when the connector or receptacle is  in use.
   Separate cables and connectors shall be used when redundant circuits are  required.
   Switches and relays shall be designed to function at expected operating voltage  and current ranges under worst cas e ground environmental conditions, including maximum  expected cycle life.
   Switches and relays used for inhibits shall not be considered adequate for RF  isolation and absorption unless demonstrated by analysis and test for the specific  environmen t of use.
   All circuits used to arm or disarm the firing circuit shall contain means to provide  remote electrical indication of their armed or safe status.
   These inhibits shall be directly monitored.
   GSE shall be provided to electrically monitor arm and safe status of the  firing circuit at all processing facilities including launch complexes up to launch.
   Monitoring, control, and checkout circuits shall be co mpletely independent of  the firing circuits and shall use a separate and non -interchangeable electrical connector.
   Monitoring, control, and checkout circuits shall not be routed through arm or  safe plugs.
   The electrical continuity of one status circuit (safe or arm) shall completely break  before the time that electrical continuity is established for the other status circuit (arm or  safe).
   The safety of the ordnance system shall not be affected by the external shorting  of a m onitor circuit or by the application of any positive or negative voltage between 0 and  35 volts DC to a monitor circuit.
   Monitoring and checkout of current in a low voltage electro -explosive system  firing line shall not exceed 1/10 the no -fire c urrent of the EED or 50 milliamperes,  whichever is less.
   Monitor circuits shall be designed so that the application of the operational  voltage will not compromise the safety of the firing circuit nor cause the ordnance system  to be armed.
  Tolerances for monitor circuit outputs shall be compatible with the tolerances  specified for the Range Safety required parameter to be verified.
 Tolerances for monitor  circuit outputs shall be specified for both RF and hardline.
   Maximums an d minimums for monitor circuit outputs shall be specified.
   No single point failure in monitoring, checkout, or control circuitry and  equipment shall compromise the safety of the firing circuit.
   Firing circuits that do not share a co mmon fire command shall be electrically  isolated from one another so that current in one firing circuit does not induce a current  greater than 20 dB below the no -fire current in any firing output circuit.
 Control circuits  shall be electrically isolated so that a stimulus in one circuit does not induce a stimulus  greater than 20 dB below the activation level in any firing circuit.
   The monitor circuit that applies current to the EED shall be defined to limit the  open circuit output voltage to 1 volt.
   All solid rocket motor ignition circuits and other high hazard ordnance systems  (as determined by Range Safety) using low voltage initiators shall provide a minimum of  three independent inhibits.
   EED ordnance systems other than solid rocket motor ignition circuits and other  high hazard ordnance systems shall provide a minimum of 2 independent inhibi ts.
 At least  one inhibit shall be a mechanical device like a safing plug.
   The safe plug shall provide interruption of the circuit after the “enable” and “fire”  switches and as close to the end item ordnance as possible.
   The final electrical connection of an EED to the firing circuit shall be as close to  the EED as possible.
   EEDs shall be protected from electrostatic hazards by the placement of resistors  from line -to-line and line -to-ground (structure).
   The system circuitry shall be designed and/or located to limit RF power at each  EED (produced by range and/or vehicle transmitter) to a level at least 20 dB below the pin - to-pin DC no -fire power of the EED.
   Launch vehicles and payloads using EBW or EFI systems shall include an EBW - firing unit (EBW -FU) or an electronic safe -and-arm-device firing unit (ESAD -FU).
   The optic system design shall preclude stray energy sources from causing an  undesired output.
 This requirement shall be demonstrated during development and  qualification testing.
   Laser power sources shall have a mi nimum of two independent and verifiable  inhibits.
 One of these inhibits for the main laser shall be a power interrupt plug that removes  all airborne and ground power to the LFU.
   High voltage laser systems used for solid rocket motor ignition circuit shall use  one of the following safety devices:  SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  161  13.
   An LFU used in conjunction with two optical barriers capable of being  armed and safed and locked and unlocked remotely; a ma nual safe plug capable of  interrupting power to the barrier control circuits shall also be provided.
   Low voltage laser systems such as a diode laser used for a solid rocke t motor  ignition circuit shall use one of the following safety devices:   13.
   Specific safety device requirements for systems other than high hazard ordnance  systems circuits shall be determin ed on a case -by-case basis by Range Safety based on the  degree of hazard.
   If a low energy level end -to-end test is to be performed when the laser -initiated  ordnance system (LIOS) is connected to the receptor ordnance, the following requirements  shall be met:   13.
   The energy level shall be less than 1/10,000 of the no -fire level of the laser - initiated device (LID).
   The single failure mode maximum energy level of the test system shall be  less than 1/100 of no -fire level of the LID.
   The test source shall emit a different wavelength than the main firing unit  laser.
   One of the following inhibit options shall be implemented during the low  energy level test:   13.
   An ordnance S&A device and a safe p lug that interrupts power to the  main laser shall be provided.
   Three independent, verifiable inhibits shall be in place to preclude  inadvertent initiation of the LID by the main laser firing unit during the low -level  energy test.
 One of thes e inhibits shall be a safe plug that interrupts power to the  main laser.
   The explosive train shall be disconnected anywhere between the LID  and the receptor ordnance.
   If a main laser subsystem firing test is performed by the Range  User when the  LIOS is connected to the receptor ordnance, a minimum of 3 independent, verifiable  inhibits shall be in place.
   Two of the inhibits shall be optical barriers capable of being independently  locked in place.
   The third inhibit shall be a safe plug that interrupts the power control  circuits to the optical barriers.
   Lasers shall be completely enclosed during checkout or provided with GSE that  can enclose the laser emission path at all times the system is powered .
   Electrical and electronic safety devices shall remain or transfer back to their safe  state in the eve nt of input power loss.
   All safety devices shall be capable of being functionally tested by ground test  equipment.
   Manual safety devices on the launch vehicle and payload that are required to be  in place in order for the launch pad to  be open for normal work shall be accessible up to  launch, requiring only a minimal crew to access the device and safe it.
   The arrangement of safety devices shall maximize safety  by placing the most  positive and reliable form of interruption closest to the initiating device.
   Ordnance and optical mechanical barriers used for safety devices shall  demonstrate a reliability of 0.
 The test method shall be a Bruceton procedure or  other statistical testing method acceptable to Range Safety.
   Safety devices shall not require adjustment throughout their service life.
   Each safety device shall be designed for a service life of at least 10 years after  passing the acceptance test.
 Fuzes shall comply with MIL -STD -1316F, Safety Criteria  for Fuze Design , and contain at least two independent safety features, each of which shall  prevent unintentional arming of the  fuze.
   Safing plugs shall be designed to be manually installed to provide electrical and  optical isolation of the input power from the electrical and optical ordnance firing circuits.
   Arming plugs shall be designed to be manually installed to provide electrical and  optical continuity from the input power to the electrical and optical ordnance firing circuits.
   Safe and arm plugs on the launch vehicle and payload that are required to be in  place in order for the launch pad or processing facility to be open for normal work shall be  accessible at all times, requiring only a minimal crew to access the plug and remove/install  it.
   Arming and safing plugs shall be designed to  be positively identifiable by color,  shape, and name.
   For low voltage systems (EEDs) that use a safing plug instead of an  electromechanical S&A, the safing plug shall be designed to electrically isolate and short  the initiator side of the firin g circuit.
 Isolation shall be a minimum of 10 kilo -ohms (10  kΩ).
   Electromechanical S&As shall provide mechanical isolation of the EED from the  explosive train and electrical isolation of the firin g circuit from the EEDs.
   When the S&A is in the safe position, the power and return lines of the firing  circuit shall be disconnected.
 The bridgewire shall be shorted and grounded through a 10  kilo-ohm (10 kΩ) to 100 kilo -ohm (100 kΩ) resistor a nd the explosive train shall be  interrupted by a mechanical barrier capable of containing the EED output energy without  initiating the explosive.
   Transition from the safe to arm position shall require 90 degrees of rotation of  the mechanical bar rier for rotating S&As containing ordnance in the barrier.
   The S&A device shall not be capable of propagating the detonation with t he  barrier rotated at least 50 degrees from safe for a 90 -degree rotational barrier.
 This position  shall be 50% of the travel distance between arm and safe for sliding barriers.
   The mechanical lock in the S&A shall prevent inadvertent transfer f rom the arm  to safe position (or vice versa) under all ground operational environments without the  application of any electrical signal.
   S&A design shall incorporate provisions to safe the ordnance train from any rotor  and/ or barrier position.
   The S&A device shall be capable of being remotely safed and armed.
 It shall not  be capable of being manually armed, but shall be capable of being manually safed.
   Remote and manual safing shall be accomplished without passing through t he  arm position.
   The S&A safe signal shall not be indicated visually or remotely unless the device  is less than 10 degrees from the safe position for rotating systems or 10% from the safe  position for sliding barriers.
   No visual indi cation of safe or arm shall appear if the device is in between the  safe and arm positions.
   The electrical continuity of one status circuit of the S&A device ( safe or arm)  shall completely break before the time that the electrical continuity is established for the  other status circuit (arm or safe).
   A remote status indicator shall be provided to show the armed or safed  condition.
   The de vice shall also indicate its arm or safe status by visual inspection.
   There shall be easy access to this visual indication throughout ground  processing.
   S&A device locations on the vehicle shall be accessible to facilitate installation  and removal and electrical and ordnance connections during final vehicle closeout.
   A safing pin shall be used in the S&A to prevent movement from the safe to the   arm position when the arming signal is applied.
   Rotation and/or transition of the mechanical barrier to align the explosive  train and electrical continuity of the firing circuit to the EEDs shall not be possible with  the safing pin installed .
   When inserted and rotated, the pin shall manually safe the device.
   Safing pins on the launch vehicle and the payload that are required to be  in place in order for the launch pad to be open for normal work shall be accessible u p  to launch, requiring only a minimal crew to access the device and safe it.
   Safing pin insertion shall require a reasonable force of resistance.
   The safing pin shall provide a means of attaching warning streamers.
   When installed, each safing pin shall be marked by a red streamer.
   Removal of the safing pin shall not be possible if the arming circuit  is energized.
   The safing pin retention mechanism shall be capable of withsta nding  applied forces of tension or torque without failure.
   Removal of the safing pin shall not cause the S&A to automatically SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  165  arm.
   Removal of the safing pin shall be  inhibited by a locking mechanism  requiring 90 degrees rotation of the pin.
   All S&A devices shall be designed to withstand repeated cycling from arm to  safe for at least 1,000 cyc les, or at least 5 times the expected number of cycles, whichever  is greater, without any malfunction, failure, or deterioration in performance.
   A constant 1 -hour application of S&A arming voltage with the safing pin  installed shall not cause t he explosive in the unit to function or degrade to a point that it  will no longer function if such a failure could create a hazard.
   The time required to arm or safe an S&A device shall not exceed 1 second after  application of the actuation sign al.
   The S&A shall not initiate and shall be safe to handle for subsequent disposal  after being subjected to a 20 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   The S&A shall have shielding caps attached on the firing connectors during  storage, hand ling, transportation, and installation up to firing line connection.
   The shielding cap shall have a solid metal outer shell that makes electrical  contact with the firing circuit case in the same manner as the mating connector.
   Electrically actuated S&As shall be used unless justification for mechanical  S&As is provided to and approved by Range Safety.
   Range Safety approved mechanical S&As shall incorporate the same features as  electrically actuated  devices except that arming and safing is performed mechanically.
   These S&As shall be designed to withstand repeated cycling from the arm to the  safe position f or at least 300 cycles without malfunction, failure, or deterioration in  performance.
   The EBW -FU shall provide circuits for capacitor charging, bleeding, charge  interruption, triggering, and monitoring.
   The charged capacitor circuit shall have a dual bleed system with either system  capable of independently bleeding off the stored capacitor charge.
   Two separate and independent ground command actions shall be required for  removing capacitor charging inhibits, and shall be positively locked out and limited to only  authorized personnel.
   EBW -FU design shall provide a positive remotely controlled means of  interrupting the capacitor charging circuit.
   A gap tube shall be provided that interrupts the EBW trigger circuit.
   EBW -FUs shall be designed to be discriminatory to spurious signals in  accordance with MIL -STD -461G, Requirements for the Control of Electromagnetic  Interference Characteristics of Subsystems and Equipment .
   The insulation resistance between each EBW -FU high voltage output circuit and  the case shall be designed to not be less than  50 megaohms (50 MΩ) at 500 Vdc.
   The isolation resistance between EBW -FU output circuits and any other circuits  shall not be less than 50 megaohms (50 MΩ) at 500 Vdc.
   Remote discharged indicators for EBW -FUs shall not appear unless the  capacitor bank voltage is 1/10 or less of the no -fire voltage of the EBW.
 The EBW -FU  shall be considered “not safe” if the indicator does not show “discharged.
   The laser firing unit, optical barrier, optical S&A, and ordnance S&A design  requirements shall be applied according  to the device used.
   The conceptual configuration of the devices to be used and their planned  prelaunch testing shall be coordinated with Range Safety as early as possible to ensure the  configuration is acceptable.
   LFUs shall provide a positive, remotely controlled means of  interrupting the power to the firing circuit.
   Capacitor charging circuits shall have a dual bleed system with eac h  system capable of independently bleeding off the stored charge.
   A gap tube shall be provided that interrupts the trigger circuit in a  high voltage LFU.
   LFUs shall be designed to be discriminatory to spurious signals in  accor dance with MIL -STD -461.
   Low voltage LFUs shall provide a continuous spurious energy  monitor and/ or detection circuit on the input firing line capable of indicating when  1/10 of the minimum input firing voltage or current firing is exceeded.
   At a minimum, LFU monitor circuits shall provide the status of the  trigger capacitor, high voltage capacitor, arm input, barrier position, barrier  locked/unlocked, inhibit input, and power as applicable.
   The electrical continuity of one status circuit shall completely break SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  167  before the time that the electrical continuity is established for the other status  circuit.
 A remote discharged indicat or  for LFUs that use a capacitor bank shall not appear unless the capacitor bank voltage  is 50% or less of the no -fire voltage of the LID.
 The LFU shall be considered “not safe”  if the indicator does not show “discharged.
   The safe position of the optical barrier shall be capable of absorbing  or redirecting the complete optical energy source to a safe receiver.
   The barrier shall be capable of absorbing and/or redirecting 100  times the maximum power that the laser can generate.
   The optical barrier shall mai ntain the safety margin and function  nominally after being pulsed by the main laser a minimum of 4 times the expected  lifetime number of pulses or 10 pulses, whichever is greater, at the maximum firing  rate and power of the laser.
   The contro l of barriers, mechanical locks, and monitors shall be  independent of the firing circuit.
   A constant 5 -minute application of arming voltage with the  mechanical lock of the barriers engaged shall not cause the optical train to go to the  arm p osition.
   All optical barriers shall be designed to withstand repeated cycling  from the arm to the safe positions for at least 1,000 cycles without any malfunction,  failure, or deterioration in performance.
   A remote status indicator for the optical barriers locat ed in LFU or  optical S&A shall be provided.
   A visual status indicator of optical barrier status shall be provided on  the device or at a nearby location so that it is easily seen by operating personnel.
   If a visual status indicator is provided on the barrier, it shall be  readily accessible to personnel on the complex and/or facility.
   The design solution for a visual indicator shall not result in an  external light source path for hazardous  light energy to enter the LIOS system.
   If a visual status indicator on the LFU or S&A device is not  provided, electronic remote status indicators shall be provided both at the  launch pad and launch control center to show the armed or safe  status of the  LFU or S&A barriers.
   The safe signal shall only be indicated when the optical barriers are  in a position that will not align the optical train and not allow initiation of the LID  with a reliability of 0.
   Bruceton -type testing or other statistical methods acceptable to Range  Safety shall be performed to establish reliability.
   When an optical S&A device is in the laser safe position, the following  criteria shall be met:   13.
   The optical transfer assembly shall be interrupted by a minimum of  two mechanical barriers that can be mechanically locked in place.
   The main laser power circuit shall be electrically disconnected.
   Optical S&As shall be capable of being remotely safed and armed.
   Optical S&As shall not be capable of being manually armed but they  shall be capable of being manually safed.
   Remote and manual safing shall be  accomplished without passing  through the armed position.
   Optical S&A barriers shall meet the requirements of paragraph  13.
   The electrical continuity of o ne status circuit shall completely break before  the time that the electrical continuity is established for the other status circuit.
   The S&A shall provide status of the optical barriers (arm, safe), barriers  locked/ unlocked, and electrical in hibits.
   The insulation resistance between each S&A circuit and the case shall not  be less than 2 megaohms (2 MΩ) at 500 Vdc.
   All S&A devices shall be designed to withstand repeated cycling from arm  to safe for at least 1,000 cycle s or at least 5 times the expected number of cycles,  whichever is greater, without any malfunction, failure, or deterioration in performance.
   A constant 5 -minute application of S&A arming voltage shall not cause  malfunction, failure, or deteri oration in performance.
   The time required to arm or safe an S&A device shall not exceed 1 second  after application of the actuation signal.
   Ordnanc e S&As shall provide mechanical isolation of the explosive  train.
   When the device is in the safe position, the explosive train shall be  interrupted by a mechanical barrier capable of containing the explosive.
   Transition from the safe to arm position shall require 90 degrees  of rotation of the mechanical barrier for rotating S&As containing ordnance in  the barrier.
   Safe to arm transition tolerances for other electromechanical  S&A devices shall be approved by Range Safety.
   The device shall not be capable of propagating the detonation  with the barrier rotated less than 50 degrees from safe for a 90 -degree rotational  barrier.
   The device shall not be capable of propagating the detonation  with the barrier at 50%  of the travel distance between arm and safe for sliding  barriers.
   Ordnance S&A device locations on the vehicle shall be accessible to  facilitate installation and/or removal of ordnance connections during final vehicle  closeout.
  The S&A shall not initiate and shall be safe to handle for subsequent  disposal after being subjected to a 20 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   The S&A device shall be designed to incorporate  provisions to safe  the ordnance train from any rotor or barrier position.
   The time required to arm or safe an S&A device shall not exceed 1  second after application of the actuation signal.
   All S&A devices shall be designed t o withstand repeated cycling  from arm to safe for at least 1,000 cycles or at least 5 times the expected number of  cycles, whichever is greater, without any malfunction, failure, or deterioration in  performance.
   A mechanical lock in the S&A shall prevent inadvertent transfer from  the arm to safe position or the safe to arm position under all operating environments  without the application of any electrical signal.
   S&A devices shall be capable of being remotely safed and armed.
   Ordnance S&As shall not be capable of being manually armed but  they shall be capable of being manually safed.
   Remote and manual safing shall be accomplished without passing 170 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   through the armed position.
   The electrical continuity of one status circuit of the S&A device (safe  or arm) shall completely break before the time that the electrical continuity is  established for the other status circuit (arm or safe).
   A remote status indicator shall be provided to show the armed  or safed condition.
   A visual status indicator shall be provided to show the armed or  safed condition by simp le visual inspection.
   Easy access to the visual status indicator shall be provided  throughout ground processing.
   The S&A safe signal shall not be indicated visually or remotely  unless the device is less than 10 degrees from the safe position for rotating systems  or 10% from the safe position for sliding barriers.
   No visual indication of safe or arm shall appear if the device is in  between safe and arm positions.
   A safing pin shall be used in the S&A device to prevent movement  from the safe to the arm position when an arming signal is applied.
   Rotation and/or t ransition of the mechanical barrier to align the  explosive train shall not be possible with the safing pin installed.
   When inserted and rotated, the pin shall manually safe the device.
   Safing pins on the launch vehicle and pay load that are required to be  in place in order for the launch pad to be open for normal work shall be accessible  up to launch, requiring only a minimal crew to access the device and safe it.
   Safing pin insertion shall require a reasonable fo rce of resistance.
   The safing pin shall provide a means of attaching warning streamers.
   When installed , each safing pin shall be marked by a red streamer.
   A constant 1 -hour application of S&A arming voltage, with the safing  pin installed, shall not cause the explosive in the unit to function.
   Removal of the safing pin shall not be possible if the arming  circuit is energized.
   The safing pin retention mechanism shall be capable of  withstanding applied forces of tension or torque without failure.
   Removal of the safing pin shall not cause the S&A to  automatically arm.
   Removal of the safing pin shall be inhibited by a locking  mechanism requiring 90 degrees rotation of the pin.
   The ESAD -FU shall provide circuits for capacitor charging, bleeding, charge  interruption, triggering, and monitoring.
   The ESAD -FU shall have a remote means of charging and discharging of the  unit’s firing capacitor.
 Two separate and independent ground command actions shall be  required for removing capacitor charging inhibits, and shall be positively locked out and  limited to only authorized personnel.
   The charged capacitor circuit shall  have a dual bleed system with either system  capable of independently bleeding off the stored capacitor charge.
   ESAD -FU design shall provide a positive remotely controlled means of  interrupting the capacitor charging circuit.
   ESAD -FUs shall be designed to be discriminatory to spurious signals in  accordance with MIL -STD -461G, Requirements for the Control of Electromagnetic  Interference Characteristics of Subsystems and Equipment .
   At a minimum, ESAD -FU monitor circuit(s) shall provide the status of the trigger  capacitor, arm input, inhibit(s ) input, control(s) input, and power.
   The ESAD -FU command and firing circuitry shall not trigger inadvertently when  subjected to the verified no -fire trigger performance levels.
   The ESAD -FU shall provide a master arm/safe command for a positive, remotely  controlled means of interrupting the power to the firing circuit and is independent of other  inhibits.
   The ESAD -FU shall power up in the safe condition.
   The ESAD -FU shall provide single fault tolerance (two inhibits)  against firing  circuit charging (armed state).
 Another inhibit against charging the ESAD -FU shall be  external to the unit.
   In the armed condition (when the capacitor is charged), the ESAD -FU shall  provide single fault tolerance (two inhibits) against firing.
   Remote discharged indicators for ESAD -FUs shall not appear unless the  capacitor voltage is 1/10 or less of the no -fire voltage of the high voltage firin g capacitor.
   The ESAD -FU shall be considered “not safe” if the indicator does not show  “discharged.
   The ESAD -FU shall be capable of being remotely safed and armed.
   The time to arm an ESAD -FU device shall not exceed 1 second after application  of the arming command.
 The time to safe shall not exceed 5 minutes after power removal.
   A remote status output indication shall be provided to show the armed or safed   condition.
   A FMECA shall be performed on ESAD -FU ordnance trains.
   The explosive or pyrotechnic mix shall not degrade, decompose, or  change  chemically over its life, causing a more sensitive device.
   The decomposition, cook -off, and melting temperatures of all explosi ves shall  be at least 30oC higher than the maximum predicted environmental temperature to which  the material will be exposed during storage, handling, transportation, and launch.
   EEDs shall be designed to withstand a constant DC f iring pulse of 1 ampere and  1 watt power for a period of 5 minutes without initiation or deterioration of performance.
   The EED main body shall not rupture or fragment when the device is fired.
   The autoignition temperature shall not be less than 150° C.
   EEDs shall not fire or deteriorate in performance (if failure can create a hazard)  as a result of being subjected to an electrostatic discharge of 25 kV from a 500 picofarad  capacitor applied in the pin -to-case mode without a series resistor, an d in the pin -to-pin  mode with a 5 kilo -ohms (5 kΩ) resistor in series.
   The EED shall not initiate and will perform to specification (if failure can create  a hazard) after being subjected to a 6 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   Insulation resistance between pin -to-case shall not be less than 2 megaohms (2  MΩ) at 500 Vdc.
   The oute r case of the EED main body shall be made of conductive material,  preferably metal.
   RF survivability shall meet the testing criteria described in AIAA S -113A - 2016, Criteria for Explosive Systems and Devices on Space and Launch Vehicles.
  Shielding caps shall be provided and placed on the EED during shipment,  storage, handling, and installation up to the point of electrical connection.
   The shielding cap shall have an outer shell made of conductive material  that provides a n RF shield and makes electrical contact with the EED case.
   There shall be no RF gaps around the full 360 -degree mating surface  between the shielding cap and EED case.
   The shielding cap shall be designed to accommodate the torqu ing tool  during installation.
   Shorting plugs (caps) shall not be used as a substitute for shielding caps.
   Explosive materials shall be secondary explosives.
   Insulation resistance pin -to-case shall be designed to not be less than 50  megaohms (50 MΩ) at 500 Vdc.
   A voltage blocking gap shall be provi ded.
   The gap breakdown voltage shall not be less than 650 Vdc when discharged  from a 0.
   The nominal gap breakdown voltage tolerance shall be specified and  approved by Range Safety.
   The EBW shall not fire or deteriorate in performance (if failure can create a  hazard) upon being subjected to a voltage of 125 to 130 volts root mean square (Vrms) at  60 Hz applied across the terminals or between the terminals and the EBW body for 5  minute s +10 sec.
   The EBW shall not fire or degrade to the extent that it is unsafe to handle when  230 +10 Vrms at 60 Hz is applied across the terminals or between the terminals and EBW  body for 5 minutes +10 sec.
   The EBW shall not fire or d eteriorate in performance (if failure can create a  hazard) upon being subjected to a source of 500 +25 Vdc having an output capacitance of  1.
   The EBW shall not fire or deteriorate in performance (if failure can create a  hazard) after exposure to that level of power equivalent to absorption by the test item of  1.
3 The frequency shall be applied across the input terminals of the EBW detonator  for 5.
   Frequency  (in Mhz)  Type   5 – 100 Continuous Wave   250 – 300 Continuous Wave   400 – 500 Continuous Wave   800 – 1,000 Continuous Wave   2,000 – 2,400 Continuous Wave   2,900 – 3,100 Continuous Wave   5,000 – 6,000 Continuous Wave   9,800 – 10,000 Continuous Wave   16,000 – 23,000 Pulse Wave *   32,000 – 40,000 Pulse Wave *   * Pulsed repetition frequency shall not be less than 100 Hz and the pulse width shall be a  minimum of 1  μs.
   The EBW shall not fire or deteriorate in performance (if failure can create a  hazard) as a result of being subjected to an electrostatic discharge of 25 kV from a 500  picofarad capacitor applied in the pin -to-case mode without a series resistor and in the pin- to-pin mode with a 5 kilo -ohm (5 kΩ) resistor in series.
   The autoignition temperature of the EBW shall not be less than 150°C.
   The EBW shall not initiate and shall perform to specification (if failure can  create a hazard) after b eing subjected to a 6 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   The EBW shall not initiate or be damaged to the extent it is unsafe to handle  after being subjected to a 40 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   LIDs shall have specific energy density, spot size, pulse width, and wavelength  characteristics with a specified tolerance level for each characteristic.
   LIDs shall not use primary explosives.
   If modified secondary (composition) expl osives are used, their sensitivity  characteristics shall be established by test IAW the US portion of NATO Allied  Ordnance Publication (AOP) -7, Manual of Data Requirements and Tests for the  Qualification of Explosive Materials for Military Use , or equivale nt.
   The test requirements and test report shall be reviewed and approved by  Range Safety.
   Flight configuration LIDs shall be tested to determine their susceptibility to all  stray energy sources present during prelaunch processing up  to the launch environment.
   At a minimum, the sensitivity characteristics to these energy sources shall  be established by functioning a minimum of 45 LIDs per the Bruceton test or other  statistical testing method acceptable to Range Safety in terms of spot size, pulse width,  energy density, and wavelength.
   A correlation between the above test and the no -fire level established for  the LID shall be provided to Range Safety for review and approval.
 At a minimum, the  LID no -fire energy shall be 104 greater than any credible stray energy source.
   If the above LID sensitivity requirements are not met, the explosive train  (LID to explosive transfer assembly [ETA] or ETA to receptor ordnance interface) shall  remain disconnected until just before final pad evacuation for launch or an ordnance  S&A device shall be provided between the LID and the ETA.
   The test shall take into account the effects of the temperature of the  explosive as well as effects caused by manufacturing variations in explosive grain size  and pressure.
   The no -fire level shall be applied for a minimum of 5 minutes without firing  or dudding the LID if dudding can create a hazard.
   The minimum all -fire level shall be at least 10 times the no -fire level.
   LIDs shall not be exposed to energy density levels greater than 1/10,000 the no - fire level of the ordnance initiator during prelaunch processing, shipment, storage,  handling, installation, and testing.
   LIDs shall dissipate heat faster than single failure conditions can input into the  device without initiating or dudding (if dudding can create a hazard).
 An analysis shall be  provided to demonstrate compliance with this requirement.
   Optical shielding and protective caps shall be provided for LIDs during  prelaunch processing, includ ing shipment, storage, handling, installation, and testing.
   Shielding and protective cap devices shall prevent exposure of the LID to  energy density levels greater than 1/10,000 of the no -fire level of the LID.
   Reflective coatings of the LID shall not be considered part of the shield.
   The sh ielding cap shall be designed to accommodate the tool used during  installation without the removal of the cap.
   Autoignition temperature of the LID shall not be less than 150°C.
   LIDs shall not initiate and shall perform to specificat ion (if failure can create a  hazard) after being subjected to a 6 -foot drop test on to a steel plate.
   The LID shall not initiate or be damaged to the extent it is unsafe to handle after  being subjected to a 40 -foot drop test on to a steel plate .
   LIDs shall not fire or deteriorate in performance (if failure can create a hazard)  as result of being subjected to an electrostatic discharge of 25 kV from a 500 picofarad  capacitor.
 The test configuration shall be approved by Range Safety.
   Each initiator shall have a positive safety interrupter feature that can be  mechanically locked in place.
   The initi ator and its interrupter shall be designed to withstand all transportation,  handling, and installation environments.
   The interrupter safety lock shall be designed to remain in place during and after  installation.
   The interrupter safet y lock shall be designed to be removed after installation.
   The design shall ensure the PAD cannot be assembled without the interrupter.
   Percussion initiators shall be designed so that the operating energy is at least  twice the all -fire energy.
   Percussion initiator no -fire energy shall be such that the percussion initiator shall  not fire when subjected to an energy of 50% of the all -fire energy.
 Non -explosive initiators (NEI s) shall be hand led on a case - by-case basis to ensure safety of the system design.
   Explosive materials shall be secondary explosives.
   The EFI shall undergo radio frequency (RF) sensitivity testing to determine the  RF no -fire power level.
4 shall be used:     178 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   Table 13.
   The EFI shall not fire as a result of being subjected to an electrostatic discharge  of 25 kV from a 500 picofarad capacitor applied in the pin -to-case mode without a series  resistor and in the pin -to-pin mode with a 5 kilo -ohm (5 kΩ) resistor in series.
   The autoignition temperature of the EFI shall not be less than 150°C.
   The EFI shall not initiate or be damaged to the extent it is unsafe to handle after  being subjected to a 40 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   The EFI shall no t auto -ignite, exhibit density variations, or melt when subjected  to any nominal high -temperature environment during handling, testing, storage,  transportation, installation, or flight.
 ETSs shall  be designed to meet the applicable safety sections of DoD -E-83578 and the requirements below.
   The explosive or pyrotechnic mi x shall not degrade, decompose, or change chemically  over its life causing a more sensitive device.
   Explosives used in ETS lines shall be secondary explosives.
   Flexible confined detonation cord (FCDC) shall not fragment or separate from e nd  fittings upon initiation.
   The ETS shall not detonate and shall be capable of performing its function (if failure  can create a hazard) after being subjected to a 6 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   The ETS shall not initiate or be damaged to the extent it is unsafe to handle after being  subjected to a 40 -foot drop on to a steel plate.
   All ETS interconnections shall provide for safety (lock) wiring or a Range Safety  approved equivalent.
   An electrically conductive path shall exist betwee n ETS components and their  attachment fittings.
5 mΩ)  but in no case shall the resistance exceed 5 ohms (5 Ω).
   ETS fittings shall be designed and located to facilitate installation o f the end receptor  ordnance components in the launch vehicle as late as practical.
   Fittings that should not be reversed or interchanged (because they may cause a hazard)  shall be designed so that reverse installation or interchange is not possible .
   Exposed end fittings shall be equipped with protective caps.
   Receptor ordnance shall be designed to meet the applicable safety sections of DoD - E-83578 and this part and shall use secondary high explosives.
   Explosives shall be non -hygroscopic.
   The receptor ordnance shall no t detonate after being subjected to a 6 -foot drop test  on to a steel plate.
   The receptor ordnance shall not initiate or be damaged to the extent it is unsafe to  handle after being subjected to a 40 -foot drop onto a steel plate.
   All ordnance test equipment, such as continuity and bridgewire resistance  measurement devices, shall be inspected and tested for voltage and optical isolation  and  limitation.
   These devices shall be designed so that they will not pass greater than 1/10  of the no -fire energy across an EED bridgewire, or 50 mA, whichever is less.
   These devices shall be analyzed to verify that rough handli ng, dropping, or  single component failure will not result in negating the current -limiting feature.
   Clear cases of unacceptable energy or current for a particular resistance  range or ranges shall be excluded from use by disablement by the manu facturer or local  authority before certification.
   Certification of each device shall include a tabular listing (to be kept with  or marked on each meter) of the energy level and current levels available at each of the  selectable ranges for the meter.
   All test equipment shall be designed to meet standard industry safety  requirements such as those established by ANSI, IEEE, NFPA, or other standards, as  applicable.
   The test results shall be submitted to Range Safety for appr oval before equipment  use on the ranges.
   A stray current monitor shall be provided for all low voltage (EED) solid rocket  motor ignition circuits and other high hazard ordnance systems as determined by Range  Safety.
   The stray current monitor shall be installed and remain connected until the  electrical connection of the actu al initiators is accomplished.
 The monitor shall be installed  at a time during vehicle processing mutually agreeable to Range Safety and the Range  User.
   The stray current monitor shall provide a stray current device capable of  detecting 1/10 of the maximum safe no -fire current.
   The monitoring device shall be install ed in the firing line.
 The design of test equipment used to test ground  support equipment shall be reviewed and approved by Range Safety.
   All laser test equipment that has th e capability to directly or indirectly fire the  LID shall be assessed and approved by Range Safety.
   Laser test equipment shall meet the following design criteria:   13.
   The energy level shall be less than 1/10,000 of the no -fire level of the LID.
   The single failure mode energy level of the test equipment shall be less than  1/100 of the no -fire level of the LID.
   The test source shall emit a different wavelength from that of the firing unit  laser.
   Ordnance data items shall be submitted IAW the  requirements of Attachment  2, paragraph  A2.
   Data to verify compliance with the design and test requirements of this volume shall  be submitted to Range Safety for review and approval before the arrival of ordnance at the  ranges.
   All schematics and functional diagrams shall have well defined, standard Institute of  Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) or military specification terminology and  symbols.
   Equipment shall be designed, fabricated, inspected, and tested in accordance with  NFPA 70.
   All wiring shall be copper and contact with dissimilar metals shall be avoided.
  Aluminum wire shall not be used.
   At a minimum, elect rical equipment shall be designed to operate within the voltage  ratings of ANSI C84.
 All electrica l and electronic ground support equipment (EGSE) and flight hardware  shall have a means to cut off power before installing, replacing, or interchanging units,  assemblies, or portions thereof.
 Safety critic al systems shall be protected  against power transients and power outages.
 Connector design shall avoid the generation  of a hazardous condition that could lead to a hazardous event.
   If a hazardous condition can be created by mismating or reverse polarity, a  positive means of preventing connector mismating shall be provided.
   If a hazardous event can occur, the following precautions shall be taken:   14.
   Power and signal leads shall not be terminated on adjacent pins of a  connector.
   Wiring shall be isolated so that a single short circuit occurring in a  connecto r cannot affect other components.
   Pin locations shall be assigned to prevent inadvertent pin -to-pin and pin - to-case shorts.
   Spare pins shall not be used in connectors controlling hazardous operations  or safety critical functions.
   The Range User shall provide a bent pin analysis to Range Safety on all  safety critical and/or hazardous system connectors.
   Connectors used in safety critical or hazardous systems shall be of the locking  type.
   Connectors relying solely on springs to maintain an electrical contact shall not  be used in safety critical or hazardous systems.
 Connectors for safety critical or hazardous  systems shall have a positive locking mechanism to prevent inadvertent, momentary  electrical disruption or disconnection of the circuit   14.
   Plug and socket type connectors shall be used in safety critical or hazardous  systems.
   Equipment shall be designed and constructed to ensure that all external parts,  shields, and surfaces, exclusive of radiating antennas and transmission line terminals, are  at ground pote ntial.
   Shields shall not be used as current carrying ground connections, except for  coaxial cables.
   Circuits that operate safety critical or hazardous functions shall be protected from  the electromagnetic environment to preclude inadv ertent operation.
   Cables shall be supported and protected against abrasion or crimping.
   Cables shall be located or protected so as not to present a tripping hazard.
   Cables in hazard ous areas shall be designed so that they do not, in and of  themselves, create a hazard.
   Cables shall be selected to include factors such as toxicity, combustibility and  smoke production, offgassing, and compatibility with liquids in the area and  environmental  exposure.
   All batteries shall be capable of being readily accessible for electrical  disconnection and/or remov al.
   Battery connectors shall be designed to prevent reverse polarity.
   The capability for reverse current to cause a hazardous condition shall be  prevented.
   If a battery is not connected to the syste m, the battery terminals or  connector plug shall be given positive protection against shorting.
   Polarity of  battery terminals shall be marked.
 Each battery shall be permanently identified with  appropriate information:   14.
   All lithium battery designs shall be reviewed and approved by Range  Safety before arrival, usage, packing, storage, transportation, or disposal on the ranges.
   Safety devices shall be incorporated into the lithium battery design.
   Each electrical safety device shall have a specific quality control progr am  approved by Range Safety.
   Safety critical steps and processes shall be identified during development  for the manufacturing process.
 These points in manufacturing shall be reviewed by  Range Safety and a determination made of what points requ ire Range Safety approval  before change and what points the Range User can approve with just notification to  Range Safety after the fact.
   Batteries shall be designed not to create a catastrophic hazard even when  the safety tests described in paragraph  14.
   Cell design shall have a minimum 1.
 The cell case shall demonstrate leak before burst  characteristics.
   Each cell and battery shall incorporate a safety -venting device or be  designed and manufactured in such a manner that will preclude a violent ruptu re as  a result of the cell venting.
   Battery case design/cell/cell pack integration shall not impede cell  safe functional operation.
 The  worst -case venting condition shall be demonstrated by test or analysis.
   Batteries/cells shall be evaluated for toxic, reactive, flammable, and  combustible materials with respect to containment and potential system collateral  damage.
 This evaluation shall include the products if the cell case vents.
   Battery and cell case design shall have a minimum 3:1 burst pressure  based on operating pressure.
 Note : The cell case operating pressures shall be  defined based on normal use from beginning of cell life to design end of life.
   Safety -venting shall be demonstrated by test to show that the  venting operates as intended and that the vent is adequate to prevent cell/battery  fragmentation.
   Qualification tests shall be conducted on flight quality batteries  to demonstrate structural adequacy of the design.
   Nondestructive inspection (NDI) techniques and methodologies  shall be identified in the acceptance test plan.
   Qualification tests shall be conducted on flight quality batteries  to ensure the battery can withstand grounds environments during transportation,  storag e, and processing.
   The MSPSP/Safety Data Package shall state lot testing  specifications for safety venting device to be reviewed and approved by Range  Safety.
 A pressure cycle test shall be conducted on  battery cells.
 The peak pressure minimum shall be equal to the ground MEOP  of the battery cells during each cycle, and the number of cycles shall be a  minimum of 4 times the predicted number of ground cycles or 50 cycles,  whichever is greater.
 After the completion of the pressure cycle test, the  pressure shall be increased to actual burst of the battery cell.
   Simulating a battery short circuit failure mode, or if a  pressure relief mechanism is not provided, case integrity shall be determined  under conditions simulating a battery short circuit failure mode.
   After all internal electrical safety devices have been  bypassed, the battery shall be shorted through a load of 0.
   Voltage, current, pressure, and temperature shall be  continuously monitored and recorded.
   Storage of the batteries (when not installed in GSE or the spacecraft)  shall be in approved battery storage locations.
   Battery and cells shall be treated as always having a voltage potential;  therefore, connection or disconnection of a battery shall be considered an electrical  personnel hazard and a ‘spark’ pot ential.
   Range users shall have an operational plan for battery/cell handling  that includes emergency contingency operations for physical abuse incident and  battery installation/removal.
 Verification shall include  inducing overvoltage/undervoltage/temperature extremes to the mon itoring devices  as intended when in use prior to connecting of the battery.
 Evidence of compliance with DoT requirements for transportation  shall be provided.
  External heating sources for battery/cell maintenance shall be dual SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  187  fault tolerant and provide feedback monitoring capability or be analyzed for failure  modes on cell/battery heating.
4 volts) and discharging (driving cells to less than 0 volts)  shall be dual fault tolerant.
 The  GSE shall provide at a minimum one inhibit for charging/discharging control.
   Discharging shall not take place below -20° C or above 60° C.
   Voltages shall be recorded at least every minute for charge rates  that exceed the  battery capacity (e.
   Charging data shall be reviewed for anomalies and verification  of voltage limits.
   Provisions shall be made for charging, monitoring, and  recording each cell/cell pack with EGSE that prevents high heat, sparking and  high charge/discharge current rates.
   A main power switch shall be provided to cut off power to all circuits in the  equipment.
 A power indicator light shall be provided.
 If fault isolation switches are  incorporated, they shall not operate independently of the main power switch.
   Power switches shall be located so that accidental contact by personnel cannot  place e quipment in operation.
   All switches and controls shall be clearly marked.
   Switches and controls shall be sufficiently separated and protected if they could  be inadvertently actuated, creating a hazardous condition.
   Critical switches that can produce or induce hazardous conditions if  inadvertently activated shall have a protective cover over them.
   Protective devices shall be provided for EGSE primary circuits.
   Protective devices shall be connected to the load side of the main power switch  unless neutral power sensing is essential for  proper protection of the equipment.
   Protection shall be provided in each of the three ungrounded conductors of all  three -phase EGSE motors so that failure of one conductor shall result in de -energizing all  three conductors.
   All safet y devices shall be located for easy access.
   Circuit breaker trips shall be detectable by visual inspection.
   Replaceable components and test points shall be read ily accessible.
   Electrical fuse and switch boxes shall be properly marked to show the voltage  present, rated fuse capacity, and EGSE that the circuit controls.
   Each redundant EGSE circuit shall have its own circuit breaker or fuse.
   Each circuit shall not have the capability to inhibit, by loss of control, more than  one safety critical control device.
   Megohm meters (megger high voltage resistance meters) shall be current  limited depending on application.
 EGSE cables shall not share the same trench as propellant lines.
   Sufficient ventilation shall be provided for EGSE batteries that produce  flammable g asses to ensure concentrations of vapor do not reach 25% of the lower  explosive limit (LEL).
   Polarity of EGSE battery terminals shall be marked.
   Battery charging EGSE shall be curr ent limited by design and shall provide  protection and monitoring to prevent battery damage or failure.
   Analysis or testing shall be conducted to demonstrate compliance with the  requirements of paragraph  14.
 At a minimum, electrical equipment and its installation shall comply  with the requirements of the most recent edition of the NFPA 70 (NEC).
 Range Safety shall  approve exceptions.
 These requirements shall be followed unless less stringent  classifications are justified and approved as part of the design data submittal process.
  Range Safety and the Fire Marshal shall approve all potential critical facility haza rdous  location designations.
 For these types of locations, fixed or permanently installed electrical  equipment shall be designed for the worst -case hazardous environment.
   Portable electrical equipment shall be designed for the worst -case  hazardous environment in which it will be used.
 The quantity of fluids used in the analysis to determine vapor  concentration shall be the maximum amount allowed in the explosives site plan.
   These fuels shall be considered ignitable regardless of the ambient  temperature.
   The following  fuels shall be categorized as follows:   14.
 The atmosphere within 10 feet of SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  191  exposed solid propellant shall be classified as a Class I, Division 2 location.
 Electrical systems and  equipment used in hazardous locations shall be designed and listed for the locations IAW  the following requirements:   14.
   Expl osion proof apparatus shall meet the requirements of NFPA 70, Article  501 for Class I, Division 1 or Division 2, and shall be listed and labeled by a nationally  recognized testing laboratory per 29 CFR 1910.
   Non-incendive apparatus shall meet the requirements of NFPA 70, Article  501 and are restricted to installations in Class I locations only.
 They shall be listed and  labeled by a nationally recognized testing labora tory such as UL, Factory Mutual (FM)  Laboratories, or those accredited by OSHA under the Nationally Recognized Testing  Laboratory (NRTL) accreditation program, 29 CFR 1910.
   Intrinsically safe equipment and systems intended for Class I, Divis ion 1  or Division 2 locations shall meet the requirements of the NEC Article 504,  Intrinsically Safe Systems , and UL 913, Standard for Safety, Intrinsically Safe  Apparatus and Associated Apparatus for Use in Class I, II, and III, Division I  Hazardous Areas , and be listed and labeled by a nationally recognized laboratory such  as UL, FM, or those accredited by 29 CFR 1910.
 In  no case shall the pressure in the enclosures be less than 1/10 inch of water.
   Rooms into which unprotected personnel may enter shall be purged  with air only.
   Purged rooms and enclosures shall be provided with an audible alarm  set to trigger when the pressure drops below 1/4 inch water.
 Airborne electrical and  electronic equipment shall be designed to meet the intent of NFPA 70, Article 501, Class I  Locations , to the maximum extent possible.
   Electromechanical initiating devices and systems shall be evaluated to determine  the associated ordnance hazard classification.
   Design, test, and data requirements shall be determined by Range Safety on a  case-by-case basis.
   At a minimum, the system safety fault tolerances described in Chapter  3 and the  initiating ordnance design requirements shall be addressed.
   Fligh t battery cases shall be designed to an ultimate safety factor of 3 to l with  respect to worst case pressure buildup for normal operations.
 For flight hardware batteries  with LBB failure modes, minimum burst factor of safety shall be 1.
   This pressure buildup shall take into account hydraulic and temperature  extremes.
   Sealed batteries shall have pressure relief capability unless the battery case is  designed to a safety factor of at least 3 to 1 based on worst case internal pressure.
   Pressure relief devices shall be set to operate at a maximum of 1.
 The battery cells shall be  demonstrated to have a LBB failure mode per paragraph  12.
2 ; and when sealed battery  cases are used, they shall also be demo nstrated to have a LBB failure mode.
 Unless  otherwise specified, the minimum burst factors for battery cells and sealed battery cases  shall be 1.
3 , a conventional fatigue -life analysis shall be performed, as  appropriate, on the unflawed structure to ascertain that the pressure vessel, acted upon  by the spectra of operating loads, pressures and environments, meets the life  requirements.
   A life factor of 5 shall be used in t he analysis.
   Qualification tests shall be condu cted on flight quality batteries to  demonstrate structural adequacy of the design.
 Random vibration testing shall be  performed on batteries per the unit qualificati on test requirements of SMC -S- 016, as tailored.
 Thermal vacuum test shall be  performed on batteries per the unit qualification test requirements of SMC -S- 016, as tailored.
 A pressu re cycle test shall be conducted on  battery cells.
 The peak pressure shall be equal to the MEOP of the battery cells  during each cycle, and the number of cycles shall be 4 times the predicted  number of operating cycles or 50 cycles, whichever is greater.
 A fter the  completion of the pressure cycle test, the pressure shall be increased to actual  burst of the battery cell.
 The actual burst pressure shall be greater than or equal  to 1.
 For batteries having sealed cases, similar  tests shall be conducted on the sealed cases, if applicable.
   Acceptance tests shall be conducted on batteries before being  committed to flight.
 Whenever feasible, battery cells shall be  proof pressure tested to 1.
 For sealed battery  cases, pressure tests shall be performed at a level of 1.
 Surface and volumetric NDE  techniques shall be performed after the proof pressure test.
   All refurbished pressure vessels shall be recertified after each  refurbishment by the acceptance test requirements for new hardware to verify the ir  structural integrity and to establish their suitability for continued service before  commitment to flight.
   Pressure vessels that have exceeded the approved storage  environment (temperature, humidity, time, and others) shall also be recert ified by  the acceptance test requirements for new hardware.
  Batteries shall be designed such that battery cells are within containment devices (or  cases).
 These containment devices (or cases) shall be demonstrated to be able to prevent  the escape  of any hazardous contents over an insignificant quantity deemed acceptable  by the procuring and safety agencies.
   Batteries with battery cells exhibiting brittle fracture  failure mode shall  meet the requirements defined in paragraph  12.
   In addition, a thermal vacuum test shall be conducted as part of the  qualification testing.
   Unless otherwise agreed to by Range Safety, the following tests shall be performed  before the use or storage of lithium batteries at the ranges.
 These tests are likely to cause violent SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  195  reactions, so all possible safety precautions shall be observed.
   The constant current discharge and reversal test shall determine if the pressure  relief mechanism functions properly or case integrity is sustained under circumstances  simulating a high rate of discharge.
   The test shall be performed according to the following criteria:   14.
   The test shall consist of a constant current discharge using a DC power  supply.
   The fusing of the battery shall be bypassed (shorted).
   The di scharge shall be performed at a level equal to the battery fuse current  rating and the voltage of the battery.
   After the battery voltage reaches 0 volts, the discharge shall be continued  into voltage reversal at the same current for a time equ ivalent to l.
   Voltage, pressure, and temperature shall be continuously monitored and  recorded.
   The short circuit test shall det ermine if the pressure relief mechanism functions  properly under conditions simulating a battery short circuit failure mode; or if a pressure  relief mechanism is not provided, case integrity shall be determined under conditions  simulating a battery short c ircuit failure mode.
   The test shall be performed according to the following criteria:   14.
   After all internal electrical safety devices have been bypassed, the battery  shall be shorted through a load of 0.
   Voltage, current, pressure, and temperature shall be continuously  monitored and recorded.
 A drop test shall be performed according to the below  criteria.
 If required, additional tests shall be identified by  Range Safety during the SRR and PDR.
   The battery in the activated state shall be dropped from a 3 -foot height to a  concrete pad on the edge of the battery, on the corner of the battery, and on the terminals  of the battery.
   The battery shall not vent or start a hazardous event when dropped.
   A physical analysis shall be performed after the drop test to determine what  handling procedures are required to safely dispose of the batteries if dropped on the ranges.
 EGSE data shall be submitted IAW  the requirements  of Attachment  2, A2.
  Hazardous commodities not listed in NFPA 497 shall be evaluated by Range Safety  for appropriate hazard classification on a case -by-case basis.
   Motor vehicles tha t do not meet DOT public transportation requirements shall  not be permitted to transport hazardous materials on the ranges unless the vehicle is  covered by a formal DOT exemption and is approved by Range Safety.
   Motor vehicles for the transport of explosives shall conform to DESR6055.
   Special -purpose trailers for range use only shall conform to DESR6055.
   If the motor vehicle is not exempted from DOT and DoD requirements, the  following data shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and approval before using the  vehicles on the ranges:   15.
   A FMECA shall be performed unless it can be demonstrated to the  satisfaction of Range Safety that a FMECA is not required.
   Trailers and their ancillary support equipment such as outri ggers and support  stands shall be designed with a yield factor of safety of at least 2 based on limits loads and  material minimum yield strength and 1.
   Load test tags shall be  attached to the trailer and marked with the following  minimum information:  198 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   15.
 At a minimum, the following tests shall be performed before first  operational use at the ranges:   15.
   Volumetric and surface NDE shall be performed on all SFP components  and SFP welds and 10% of non -SFP welds located in the load path before and after the  road/ load test.
  Data requirements shall be submitted IAW the requirements of Attachment  2, A2.
   Lift trucks shall be in accordance with NFPA 505, Fire Safety Standard for  Powered Industrial Trucks Including Type Desig nations, Areas of Use, Conversions,  Maintenance, and Operation  and UL 583, UL Standard for Safety Electric -Battery - Powered Industrial Trucks .
   Lift trucks used to transport explosives and propellants or operate in explosive  and propellant locatio ns shall also meet the requirements of DESR6055.
   Lift trucks shall be equipped with shoulder -high wing safety seats with seatbelts.
   Personnel platforms at tached to lift trucks shall be designed and tested IAW  paragraph  6.
 Lift trucks shall be tested in accordance with ASME/ITSDF B56  Series Safety Standards, NFPA 505 and UL 583.
 Data requirements shall be submitted IAW the  requirements of Attachment  2, A2.
 The software safety effort  shall be an integral portion of the Range User system safety program.
   The requirements shall be tailored to the system or system type under devel opment.
  Unless specifically excluded by Range Safety, these requirements shall apply to all computer  systems and subsystems that perform safety critical functions during the assembly, handling,  checkout, test, and launch of missiles and space vehicles.
   Software shall be classified, designed, developed, tested, and assessed for risk in  accordance with MIL -STD -882E, which in turn references the Joint Software Sys tems Safety  Engineering Handbook (JSSSEH) for further details.
  Software design, development and  testing shall be conducted according to a software safety pl an which is integrated into the  overall System Safety Program.
   The Range User shall identify all of the following:   16.
 Safety -significant functions shall  be positively identified in hardware, software, and firmware domains.
   Safety -significant soft ware functions shall be assigned a software criticality index  (SwCI) based on severity and SCC, as outlined in MIL -STD -882E, Table V – Software Safety SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  201  Criticality Matrix.
 Derivation of criticality shall be based on both requirements and concept of  operatio ns.
   Application of LOR shall be based on SwCI in accordance with Appendix A of the JS - SSA-IG, as tailored by the program.
 Single -point  failure analysis shall account for potential system failures due to software and its interaction  with other software components, hardware components, and human components of the system.
   The following subparagraphs  identify general hardware and software requirements that shall be met for all safety critical  computer system functions.
   Computer systems shall be validated for operation in the intended env ironment.
   Under maximum system loads, CPU throughput shall not exceed 80% of its  design value.
   Computer system architecture shall be single failure fault tolerant.
   No single software fault/output shall initiate a hazardous operation.
   No single software fault/output shall cause a critical accident.
   No single or double software fault/output shall cause a catastrophic  accident.
   Fulfilling the following requirement s in addition to the other requirements  in Chapter  16 shall constitute meeting the computer system requirements in  paragraphs  16.
 Range Users shall identify and provide  the following items to Range Safety:  202 SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022   16.
 Consideration shall be  given to data integrity, memory use, timeliness and correct sequencing of data, and  situations where the interaction of modules, hardware,  software, and/or users may  be problematic.
   Sensitive components of computer systems shall be protected against the harmful  effects of electromagnetic radiation and/or electrostatic discharge.
   As agre ed to by Range Safety, the computer system shall periodically verify that  safety critical hardware and SCFs, including safety data transmission, are operating  correctly.
   Computer systems shall be powered up and/or  restarted in a safe state.
   A computer system shall not enter a hazardous state as a result of an intermittent  power transient or fluctuation.
   In the event of the single failure of primary power to a computer system or  computer system  component, that system or some cooperating system shall take action  automatically to transition to a stable state.
   Software used to power up safety critical systems shall power up the required  systems in a safe state.
   Before initiating hazardous operations, computer systems shall perform checks  to ensure that they are in a safe state and functioning p roperly.
   The following hazardous conditions and failures, including those from multipl e  sources, shall be detected:   16.
3  shall be reported to the appropriate  system operator consoles in real time, prioritized as to severity, and logged to an audit file.
   The display shall distinguish between r ead and unread anomaly alerts.
   The display shall support reporting multiple anomalies.
   The display shall distinguish between anomaly alerts for which corrective  action has been taken and those that are still pending.
3 , the software shall  remain in or revert to a stable state.
   Upon detecting a failure during vehicle processing, the software shall maintain  the FTS in its current state in addition to meeting the requirements in paragraph  16.
   The software shall maintain the FTS in the safe state before arming.
   After the FTS is armed, the software shall retain the FTS in the armed state.
   When the FTS receiver is on internal power, the software shall maintain  the FTS receiver on internal power.
   Non-operational hardware and software required for testing or maintenance shall  be clearly identified.
   Systems shall include interlocks, as necessary, to mitigate hazards when  performing maintenance or testing.
   Interlocks shall be designed to prevent an inadvertent override.
   Interlocks that are r equired to be overridden shall not be autonomously controlled  by a computer system, unless dictated by a timing requirement.
   Interlocks that are required to be overridden and are autonomously controlled by  a computer system shall be designed to prevent an inadvertent override.
   The status of overridden interlocks shall be displayed on the appropriate operator  console(s).
   A positive indication of interlock(s) restoration shall be provided and verified on  the appropriate operator console(s) before restoring a system to its operational state.
   SCF so ftware test documentation shall be coordinated with Range Safety.
 SCF  software testing shall be conducted IAW the approved test plan and include the following:   16.
   The s ystem shall be designed such that the operator may exit current processing  to a known stable state with a single action.
   Computer systems shall minimize the potential for inadvertent actuation of  hazardous operations.
   Only one operator at a time shall control safety critical computer system  functions.
   Operator -initiated hazardous functions shall require two or more independent  operator actions.
   Software shall provide confirmation of valid command and/or data entry to the  operator.
  Software shall provide two different sensory feedback methods to the operator  that indicates command receipt and status of the operation commanded.
   Software shall provide the operator with real -time status reports of operations.
   The system shall ensure that a single failure or error cannot prevent the operator  from taking safing actions.
   Software shall not use a bit pattern of all 1s or all 0s to denote the safe and arm  (potentially hazardous) states.
   The arm and safe states shall be represented by unique bit patterns of length at  least 4 bits in such a way that the safe state pattern cannot represent the arm pattern as a  result of a 1or 2 -bit erro r.
   The Range User shall provide a software configuration management (SCM) plan  to Range Safety.
   Software and firmware shall be put under formal configuration control as soon  as a software baseline is established.
   A Software Configuration Control Board (SCCB) shall be established to approve  changes to configuration -controlled software before implementation.
   Computer system and software  data shall be provided IAW Attachment  2, A2.
   The Range User shall ensure appropriate  V&V requirements are established at  the beginning of the program to ensure proper implementation of software safety  requirements.
   IV&V shall be performed by an independent third party.
 The assessor shall not  be part of the developer’s company or its subsidiaries unless specifically approved by  Range Safety, given sufficient separation e xists and can be demonstrated.
   The IV&V process shall begin during the definition phase and encompass the  requirements, design, development, operational evaluation and test, and life cycle program  phases.
   Efforts of V&V used to identi fy where IV&V is required shall encompass:   16.
   IV&V shall report and track through closure all anomalies throughout the  development and operational implementation process.
   All serious and high risk SwCI anomalies shall be closed with Range Safety  approval prior to use of SwCI at the range.
 Unverifiable failures that cannot be tracked to  a specific piece of hardware or software shall be docu mented as such.
  Unverifiable failures  shall be documented with any analysis done, special testing performed, configuration of  the system at the time of the failure, and any other applicable information for the future.
   Equipment needed or required for post -earthquake recovery, essential equipment (per  code definition), or safety critical equipment, shall be designed to remain operational or revert  to a “safe mode” during a seismic event, and to be operational immediately following a seismic  event.
 This equip ment shall be designed with an importance factor of 1.
   Equipment whose failure or excessive deflections during a seismic event could  propagate to a catastrophic event or endanger personnel, is a high -pressure system, or is a  system used to store hazardous or toxic materials shall b e designed and anchored to withstand  a seismic event.
 The equipment need not remain operational after the seismic event as long as  personnel and environmental safety is preserved; however, equipment whose failure could  result in a catastrophic event or end anger personnel shall be designed to revert to an established  “safe mode” in the event of a seismic event.
   Equipment whose movement could propagate to a catastrophic event, block personnel  egress avenues, or injure personnel shall be secured to pr event movement.
   Transportation equipment shall be stored with the casters or wheels locked or blocked.
  Transportation equipment shall be stored in open areas so that if movement occurs during an  earthquake, the equipment shall not impact adjoining  structures (for example, building  columns) and propagate into a facility or equipment failure.
   Gravity friction shall not be used to anchor or restrain equipment.
   Seismic design of equipment, supports and/or anch orages shall be IAW the  International Building Code (IBC) , ASCE/SEI 7, and the additional requirements specified in  this publication.
 If a geotechnical report is too costly and not available, a site soil SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  209  classification D shall be used if deemed appropriate by the range user and safety.
   Appropriate seismic hazard mitigation shall be i mplemented for high -cost computer  or electronic equipment.
   Seismic loads for AGE/GS E shall be calculated IAW the IBC and ASCE/SEI 7.
   Seismic loading shall include vertical component in addition to the horizontal  component to evaluate the total earthquake load.
   Calculation of the seismic loads shall consider dynamic amplification and the  dynamic characteristics of the GSE and their supports and anchorage to ensure the proper  seismic response factor is sele cted.
   Loads combinations shall be in accordance with IBC and ASCE/SEI 7.
 GSE that meets any of the following criteria shall be exempt from seismic  design and/or restraint requirements:   17.
  The analysis shall address risk for catastrophic failure of the equipment or any potential  catastrophic event the equipment may precipitate.
 For programs and/or projects planning to reuse existing GSE that  does not meet the requirements in this publication, the Range User shall assess that equipment  for potential risk.
 The Range U ser shall coordinate the risk assessment with Range Safety and  formulate specific risk mitigation plans for the GSE in question.
   The GSE data package shall be submitted IAW the  requirements in Attachment  2, A2.
19  and shall identify the equipment and potential for  seismic hazard and risk.
   In addition to the requirements in Chapter  6 and Chapter  13 of this volume, the  following data and analysis shall be provided for solid rocket motors and rocket motor segments:   18.
1  Single failure items and SFP welds shall be clearly identified.
 This analysis  shall include the following:   18.
 X -ray or ultrasonic testing equipment failure modes, and their effect on the  rocket motor/segment shall be analyzed.
 This analysis  shall specify operational restrictions, in other words, no lifting or handling of segments or motors  during lightning advisory periods.
6  shall be submitted for solid rocket motors and motor segments.
   An MSPSP shall be submitted to Range Safety by the Range  User with overall responsibility for the launch vehicle, reusable launch vehicle, payload, or  ground support systems.
   A final MSPSP that satisfies all Range Safety concerns addressed  at the CDR shall be submitted to Range Safety for review and appro val at least 45 calendar  days before the intended shipment of hardware to the range.
 Where applicable, previously approved documentation shall be  referenced throughout the package.
 All schematics, functional  diagrams, and operational manuals shall have well defined, standard IEEE or  military  specification terminology and symbols.
 The MSPSP shall contain a table of contents  and a glossary.
 The “introduction” section shall address the scope and purpose of  the MSPSP.
   At a minimum, the “flight hard ware subsystems” section shall include the  following information and the specific data requirements listed in paragraphs A2.
   Supporting data shall be included or summarized and referenced as appropriate  with availability to Range Safety upon request.
 At a minimum, analyses, test plans, and test reports  shall be listed, referenced, and summarized in the MSPSP.
1 , the material properties of SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  215  the main structures, mechanisms, and deployables used on launch vehicles and  payloads shall be included in the MSPSP.
 The description  shall include the information identified in paragraph  A2.
   For hazardous propellants, fluids, and gases, the following shall be  submitted:   A2.
 The  following information shall be submitted for all systems: A schematic that presents the  system in a clear and easily readable form with complete subsystems grouped and  labeled accordingly.
 The following information shall be provided in a schematic  or a  corresponding data sheet.
   System information shall  be placed in tabular form; suggested  format is shown below.
 The following information shall be submitted for each component:   A2.
   The MOP the component shall operate at when installed in the  system.
   Component information shall be placed in tabular form; suggested  format is shown below.
 A detailed description of the electrical and electronic  subsystems of the launch vehicle or payload shall be provided.
 The description shall  include the information identified in paragraph  A2.
 The following information shall be  submitted for flight hardware batteries:   A2.
10  above and the safety controls that shall be in effect.
 A detailed description of the ordnance subsystems of the  launch vehicle or space craft shall be provided.
 The description shall include the  information identified in paragraph  A2.
 The  following ordnance hazard classification data shall be submitted:   A2.
 The following ordnance system  data shall be submitted:   A2.
   The schematics shall include all other vehicle components and  elements that interface or share common usage with the ordnance system.
   All pin assignments shall be accounted for.
 The narrative description and functional  schematic shall be capable of being used to determine the configuration and  resulting fault tolerance of the vehicle and ground ordnance systems at any time  during prelaunch processing, launch countdown, or launch, including all credible  failure scenarios.
 The following  ordnance component design data shall be submitted:   A2.
  Specific requirements for handling and storing the flight ordnance shall be submitted.
 In addition to the  requirements listed for ordnance, the following data shall be provided for solid rocket  motors and rocket motor segments:   A2.
 A detailed description of the non -ionizing radiation  sources shall be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in  paragraph  A2.
 The following information shall be  submitted for RF emitters:   A2.
 Site plans shall be submitted to Range Safet y and the  IRSO for all RF generating equipment.
 The site plan shall include the following  information:   A2.
 At a minimum, the following RF emitter  design and test data shall be submitted:   A2.
 At a  minimum, the following laser system data shall be submitted:   A2.
 Analysis and supporting data outlining  possible laser system failures for all phases of laser system uses shall be submitted.
 A detailed description of the ionizing radiation sources  shall be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in  paragraph  A2.
 The following data  shall be submitted:  SSCMAN91 -710V3  27 DECEMBER 2022  227  A2.
 The SAS shall be referenced in the MSPSP  and submitted as an accompanying document.
  The following data shall be submitted:   A2.
   A description of the radiation levels, in millirems per hour,  accessible to personnel for all modes of operation and all surfac es accessible to  personnel; levels with doors and access panels removed shall be included.
 A detailed description of acoustical hazard sources shall  be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in paragraph   A2.
 The following data  requirements shall be submitted for acoustic hazards:   A2.
 A  detailed description of the hazardous material shall be  provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in paragraph   A2.
 At a minimum, the following  hazardous materials data shall be submitted:   A2.
   A Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for each hazardous material and liquid  on flight hardware or used in ground processing; the SDS shall be available for  review at each location in which the material is stored or used.
   The Range User shall provide the following  information to Range Safety in the MSPSP:   A2.
   At a minimum, the “ground support  system” section shall include the following  information and the specific data requirements listed in paragraphs  A2.
   Supporting data shall be included or summarized an d referenced as appropriate  with availability to Range Safety upon request.
 At a minimu m, analyses, test plans, and test reports  shall be listed, referenced, and summarized in the MSPSP.
   Design and test plan data  for the following government and Range User furnished material handling equipment  (MHE) shall be provided.
 A detailed description of MHE shall be provided.
 Th e  description shall include the information identified in paragraph  A2.
 At a minimum, the initial  proof load test plan and results shall be documented and be made available upon  request.
 A detailed description of the pressure and propellant  systems shall be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in  paragraphs  A2.
2  shall be submitted in addition to a copy of any DOT  approved exemptions for mobile and portable hazardous pressure systems.
3  shall be submitted  for ground support pressure system components.
 A detailed de scription of electrical and electronic  subsystems shall be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified  in paragraph  A2.
2  shall be provided for EGSE batteries.
   For explosion proof and intrinsically safe equipment approved by a  nationally recognized testing laboratory, the following  information shall be  provided:   A2.
   For any explosion proof equipment or components not having a  fixed label from a nationally recognized testing laboratory, the data and  certification shall be available for inspection in the facility of use.
 A detailed description of ordnance subsystems shall be  provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in paragraph   A2.
 Specific  requirements for handling and storing the ground support ordnance shall be submitted .
 A detailed description of non -ionizing subsystems shall be  provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in paragraph   A2.
2  shall be submitted for RF emitters.
3  shall be submitted.
 A detailed description of ionizing subsystems shall be  provided.
 The description shall include the information identified in paragraph   A2.
3  shall be provided for all ground radiation producing sources.
 A detailed description of acoustical hazards and  subsystems shall be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified  in paragraph  A2.
2   shall be submitted for acoustic hazards.
 A detailed description of hazardous materials and  subsystems shall be provided.
 The description shall include the information identified  in paragraph  A2.
2  shall be submitted.
 A detailed description of the PSC shall be provided.
 The  description shall include the information identified in paragraph  A2.
 The following data shall be submitted for the PSC:   A2.
   At a minimum, the following data shall be provided for  motor vehicles:   A2.
   For lift trucks used to lift or move critical loads; maintenance plans  shall be submitted for review and approval.
   The Range User shall provide the information  identified in paragraph  A2.
   The G SE data package shall identify the  equipment and potential for seismic hazard and risk and shall include:   A2.
   A compliance checklist of all design, test, analysis, and data  submittal requirements in this ch apter shall be provided.
 The checklist shall indicate for each  requirement if the proposed design is compliant, non -compliant but meets intent, non -compliant  (waiver required) or non -applicable.
 All changes shall be highlighted using change bars or similar means  of identification.
