Where a mandatory requirement is to be specified, the word “shall” shall be used. 
recommendation (wish) is intended, the words “may” or “should ” shall be used. 
The transition between Operate and Maintenance shall occur on operator command.

The system shall transition to the Off state upon removal of primary power.

The pilot shall have the ability to edit any route generated by the function.

The pilot shall be able to accept or reject the generated route.

The system shall be able to receive the required separation parameters (e.g. 
Computations performed to provide the ASA functionality shall conform to the requirementsdefined in the document Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS)  for AirborneSurveillance and Separation Assurance Processing (ASSAP).

The system shall be capable of detecting potential conflicts between the aircraft and all trafficthat is identified in the surveillance database.

algorithm(s) shall be additionally run whenever new surveillance data is received.

The computed trajectories shall allow for the Pilot Decision Time.

The pilot shall be able to modify the proposed trajectory.

Decision Time then the system shall repeat the conflict resolution process.

The system shall be capable of implicit co-ordination for the resolution of a conflict.

of separation has higher priority5 in the event of the systems continued inability to resolve priority, the aircraft with the lowest ICAOaddress shall manoeuvre.

alert shall be generated.

advisory alert shall be generated.

If a tolerance value has not been set then a figure of 10% shall be used.

The system shall be capable of obtaining manoeuvre data from the autopilot.

information message shall be generated that indicates which constraints have not been metand, if possible, the reason(s) why the constraint has not been met.

The system shall be capable of utilising constraints received from AOC.

The trajectory generation function shall take account of the flight phase table.

The system shall provide a static database containing a default phase table for the aircraft.

The system shall allow the static phase table database to be updated by the data loader.

through shall be used as the lateral tolerance to each point in the Trajectory.

The monitoring function shall compare the aircraft position to the active trajectory.

The Ground Movement function shall operate whilst the aircraft is on the ground.

The guidance information shall include turn directions and severity.

The guidance information shall include the distance from the next turn.

The guidance information shall include the distance to the next hold box.

The guidance information shall provide Stop/Go status for the hold box.

The guidance information shall indicate the need for any speed change.

clearance, an advisory alert shall be generated.

Data defined in this section shall be stored in non-volatile memory.

The database shall store only data, not any system executable code.

The database structure shall allow an increase in the number of different data types stored.

During the initialisation State, the integrity of the data stored in the database shall be verified.

The system shall generate an alert in the event of an integrity failure.

The Data Management function shall provide control for the storage/retrieval of this data.

The surveillance database shall hold both state and intent data for each traffic object.

In the event of the allocated memory being filled, the oldest logged data shall be overwritten.

Logged data shall be available for download post flight.

All logged data shall be timestamped.

Fault data shall be logged on the first occurrence of the fault.

During flight any communications received or created by the system shall be logged.

The stored data shall include the time of receipt and the source of the information.

The aircraft equipment shall record the aircraft state data at 10s intervals.

IN STRICT CONFIDENCE Page 26The aircraft equipment shall record the contents of the surveillance database at 60s intervals.

The HMI shall be capable of controlling an MCDU that conforms to ARINC739A.

The HMI shall utilise inputs from an MCDU that conforms to ARINC739A.

The pilot shall be able to use the MCDU to control the actions of the MA-AFAS equipment.

The system shall be able to generate a Traffic Situation Display (TSD) on the ND.

The system shall include a Cursor Control Device.

The Cursor Control Device shall comprise a roll ball and two buttons; Action and Menu.

The pilot shall be able to use the CCD in conjunction with the ND to select an object.

Information about a selected object shall be available for display on the MCDU.

Taxi Management functions shall be controlled using the MCDU and the ND/CCD.

Conflict Detection and Resolution functions shall be controlled using the MCDU. 
Trajectory Generation and Negotiation funnctions shall be controlled using the MCDU. 
The communications facilities of the system shall be controlled using the MCDU. 
Alert information shall be displayed to the pilot on the MCDU.

IN STRICT CONFIDENCE Page 30An information alert shall be generated if a requested service is not available.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a VCI message.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a ES message.

IN STRICT CONFIDENCE Page 31An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a DCL message.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of decoding taxi route information messages.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of decoding taxi route clearance messages.

An advisory alert shall be generated upon receipt of a taxi route message.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a DSC message.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a route change request message.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a trajectory request message.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a trajectory modification message.

An information alert shall be generated upon receipt of a D-SIGMET delivery message.

An advisory alert shall be generated upon receipt of a request for a microphone check.

IN STRICT CONFIDENCE Page 37The aircraft equipment shall be capable of decoding all service levels of GRAS transmissions.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of decoding GBAS messages.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of decoding SBAS messages.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of sending data to the Aircrew Warning System(AWS)  through an ARINC 429 compliant interface.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of receiving ATN messages on a VDL Mode 2 link.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of receiving ATN messages on a VDL Mode 4 link.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of sending IP messages through a VDL Mode 4 link.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of receiving IP messages on a VDL Mode 4 link.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of receiving GBAS transmissions on a VHF link.

The aircraft equipment shall be capable of receiving GRAS transmissions on a VHF link.

The FMU shall be capable of receiving input data from a trackball using an RS232 input port.

equipment shall be compliant with the ARINC 429 standard.

The FMU shall be capable of sending data to up to three independently operating MCDUs.

equipment shall be compliant with the ARINC 429 standard as defined in section 4.3.11 ofARINC 702A.

The system shall hold Navigation data as defined in ARINC 424.

The Aircraft Performance Database shall comprise the data specified in ARINC 702A.

The Airport Surface Map Database shall comprise the data specified in ARINC 702A.

The system shall store company route information uploaded from the data loader.

The system shall allow the storage of at least 4000 individual waypoints.

The system shall store Magnetic Variation Data as per ARINC 702A.

The database shall hold aircraft Flight Phase Table in a TBD format.

The database shall store traffic state data obtained from the ADS-B/TIS-B data transmissions.

The system shall store smoothed traffic state data.

The system shall store received traffic intent data.

The system shall maintain a database of the active trajectory.

The system shall maintain a status for every item of data held in the database.

The system shall maintain a database of significant weather received from the datalink.

The system shall be designed to allow the addition of dual or triple redundancy operation.

The trials equipment for the Airborne Equipment shall be based on a VME rack architecture.

The trajectory generation process shall complete within 5 seconds.

held in the airborne equipment shall be utilised.

All new software shall be written in ANSI Standard C or C++.

The style of the code shall be as defined in MA-AFAS Software Coding Standard.

The software developed for the airborne equipment shall conform to DO178B/ED12B Level C.

programme shall be compliant with the design and construction requirements of ARINC 600-12.

The airborne equipment shall be capable of operation by a single person.

All of the requirements detailed within this document shall be treated with equal precedence.

Certification of the system shall be in accordance with the Certification Plan; MA-AFAS D45.

