Software shall send fire/overheat warnings and FDU/Sensing Element error signals over ARINC429 10 times per second.
Software shall send fire/overheat/BALD warnings and FDU/Sensing Element error signals over ARINC429 10 ±1 times per second.
The minimum pulse width of discrete signals shall be 40ms. 
Software shall identify status of discrete input signals which pulse width is higher than or equal to 30ms.

The triggered type of FDU_TEST signals shall be Falling Edge type.

Software shall disable IBIT function when an error is detected in FDU_TEST input circuit.
Software shall disable IBIT function when Discrete Input I/O Voltage Test failed.
Software shall perform CBIT in 5 second  periods. 
-Software shall perform CBIT in 5000+3000+-100 milliseconds  period. 
-Software shall perform CBIT in 8000+-100 milliseconds  period. 
Software CBIT shall be performed in less than 1000ms.
Software shall perform CBIT in less than 1000ms.
Software shall start IBIT, when FDU_TEST signal  is detected.
Software shall conduct IBIT, when FDU_TEST signal  is detected in Operational Mode.
Software IBIT shall include all the CBIT tests.
Software shall use previous CBIT test results in IBIT.
Software shall assert the fire warning of Sensing Element 1 ,2, 5 and overheat warning of Sensing Element 1 ,2, 3, 4, 5, 6  at the end of IBIT , where software is capable to detect the hazards.
Software shall assert the fire warning of Sensing Element 1 ,2, 5  at the end of IBIT , where Sensing Element or its corresponding conditioning circuits NOT failed.
Software shall assert Sensing Element 3, Sensing Element 4, or  Sensing Element 6,  overheat warning when the corresponding thermal input at SC Domain is over 3103.2 mV at 0 C° reference junction.
Software shall clear Sensing Element 3, Sensing Element 4,  or Sensing Element 6, overheat warning when the corresponding thermal input at SC Domain is below 3087.2 mV at 0 C° reference junction.
Software shall report failure about open and short circuit via ARINC429 separately for each “SENSING ELEMENT” or its corresponding conditioning circuits. 
Software shall detect open and short circuit existence separately for each “SENSING ELEMENT” or its corresponding conditioning circuit.
Software shall not assert false warning because of a short circuit fault at the measurement signal path.
Software shall prevent corresponding fire and overheat warning if a short circuit fault detected for a Sensing Element.
Software shall not assert false warning because of a open circuit fault at the measurement signal path
Software shall prevent corresponding fire and overheat warning if an open circuit fault detected for a Sensing Element.
Software shall enter Fault mode when below test are failed during PBIT.
· MCU Core Test
· MCU Temperature In-Range Test
· MCU Clock Test
· Software Corruption Test
· Random Access Memory Test
· Calibration Data Test
Software shall enter Fault mode when any of the below tests are failed during PBIT. 
 MCU BIST Test  
 MCU Temperature In-Range Test 
 MCU Clock Test 
 Software Corruption Test 
 Random Access Memory Test 
 Calibration Data Test
If software corruption test fails, software shall stay in infinitive loop  
Software shall have CBIT function consisting of: 
• MCU Temperature In-Range Test 
• ADC Peripheral Test(Calibration and Test) 
• MCU Clock Test 
• Discrete Output Test(Current State) 
• ARINC Communication Test 
• Discrete Input Voltage Test 
• “SENSING ELEMENTs” & Circuit Test 
• Cold Juncton Test 
• MCU Configuration Register Test
 
Software shall have a low-pass digital filter with 5Hz cut off frequency.
Software shall perform low-pass filtering on thermal inputs with below specifications.
Digital filter stopband frequency: 1-30 Hz .
Anti-aliasing filter stopband start frequency: 300 Hz 
Digital filter stopband ratio : -60dB 
Software shall acquisite, and process thermal input signals and provide warnings in maximum 750ms. 
Software shall provide warnings in 750ms when thermal input is over corresponding threshold value. 
Software shall process thermal inputs signal and clear warnings in 750ms.
Software shall clear warnings in 1000ms (+- 100ms) when thermal input is below corresponding threshold value while in Operational Mode.  
Software shall assert Sensing Element 1, Sensing Element 2 or Sensing Element 5 fire warning when the thermal input at SC Domain is over 3476.72 mV at 0 C° reference junction.
Software shall clear Sensing Element 1, Sensing Element 2 or Sensing Element 5 fire warning when the corresponding thermal input at SC Domain is below 3460.08 mV at 0 C° reference junction.
Software shall assert Sensing Element 1, Sensing Element 2 or Sensing Element 5 overheat warning when the corresponding thermal input at SC Domain is over 3087.2 mV at 0 C° reference junction.
Software shall clear Sensing Element 1, Sensing Element 2 or Sensing Element 5  overheat warning when the corresponding thermal input at SC Domain is below 3071.2 mV at 0 C° reference junction.
When in power on mode, software shall perform PBIT function.
Software shall have Alarm status function, while software in operational mode.
Software shall have Alarm status function while in operational mode.  
Software shall send sensing element errors by ARINC429 interface, while in operational mode.
Software shall send Sensing Element error signal over ARINC429 10 times per second, while in operational mode
Software shall have IBIT function, while In operational mode.
NA0003011-DSS-00256 ile aynı olduğundan silinebilir
Software shall have CBIT function while in operational mode.
Software shall perform CBIT function every 5 second (+-100 millisecond) while in operational mode.
While in Fault Mode, software shall assert FDU_FAIL via ARINC429. 

Software shall enter calibration mode by secure manner in factory, while in operational mode. 

While In calibration mode, software shall store calibration data to non-volatile memory on MCU.

Software shall keep second core in reset state.
Software shall provide following signal data over ARINC429.
Engine Upper Fire Signal
Engine Lower Fire Signal
APU Fire signal
Engine Upper Overheat Signal
Engine Lower Overheat Signal
APU Overheat Signal
FDU Fail
Engine Upper Thermal Detection Error Signal
Engine Lower Thermal Detection Error Signal
APU Thermal Detection Error Signal
ECS Main Duct-1 Thermal Detection Error Signal
ECS Main Duct-2 Thermal Detection Error Signal
ECS Ejector Thermal Detection Error Signal
ECS Main Duct-1 Overheat Signal
ECS Main Duct-2 Overheat Signal
ECS Ejector Overheat Signal
MAJOR Version Data
MINOR Version Data
BUGFIX Version Data
APU Fire Discrete Output Error Signal
Engine Fire Discrete Output Error Signal
Software shall have a log function to store software total operation time.
Software shall store software Total Operation Time in minute resolution up to 10 years long from first run, in all software modes.
Software shall provide UART communication.
Software shall receive and transmit the data through with uart interface.  
Software shall send version information over ARINC 429  interface one time  after PBIT.
Software shall send software version information over ARINC 429  interface one time  after PBIT    
Software shall signal IBIT fire warnings for 3 seconds with discrete interface, at the end of IBIT , when “SENSING ELEMENT” or its corresponding conditioning circuits NOT failed.
Software shall signal IBIT fire warnings for 3 seconds via discrete interface, at the end of IBIT.
Software shall send  errors for 3 seconds with ARINC 429 interface, at the end of IBIT, when “SENSING ELEMENT” or its corresponding conditioning circuits failed.
Software shall send Sensing Element errors for 3 seconds with ARINC 429 interface, at the end of IBIT, when “SENSING ELEMENT” or its corresponding conditioning circuits failed.  
Software shall not change discrete output state from active to passive in less than 1 second period, while not in IBIT test.
Öneri1: Software shall keep discrete output in active state for 1 second(+-100 millisecond), while not in IBIT test. 

Öneri2: When the software changes any discrete output to active state, should keep it in that state at least 1 second (+-100 millisecond), while not in IBIT test.
When Software asserts fire signal for a Sensing Element, shall deassert corresponding overheat signal.

Proposed eklenecek böylece complete olacak
Software shall set CPU clock frequency 100MHz (+-5MHz).
Software shall set CPU clock frequency less than or equal to100MHz (+-5MHz) in power-on mode.
Software shall exit from Power on mode in less than 4500 milliseconds.
-DELETED
Software shall keep event log on Flash.
Software shall keep event log on NVM(non volatile memory) when below events occur:
- CBIT error 
- Fire/overheat
- FDU power on(log open time)
Software shall filter noise on discrete inputs signals.

Software shall check MCU configuration registers and enter fault mode if configuration registers are changed unexpectedly.
 
Software shall perform IBIT, if FDU_TEST signal's glitch filter result changes from passive to active state.  
Software shall perform IBIT, when the filtered value of FDU_TEST input signal changes from passive to active state.
Software shall disable unused MCU's peripherals.
Software shall send ARINC429 data packets.
-DELETED
Software shall send the discrete outputs' health status signals over ARINC429 once every second.
Software shall provide following signal data over discrete Interface.
- Engine Fire Signal
- APU Fire Signal
Software shall provide Engine Fire Signal, APU Fire Signal data over discrete interface with below specifications:

Software shall monitor following discrete type signal.
- FDU_TEST 
Discrete input, fdu test gereksinimleri aratılacak
The software shall monitor a total of 12 Thermal Inputs of the 6 Sensing Elements with two output terminals.
Software shall monitor 12 Thermal Inputs of the 6 Sensing Elements with two output terminals in Operational Mode.

Software shall signal fire warnings of Sensing Element 2 and Sensing Element 5 with using discrete 2 output.
Software shall provide signal to discrete 2 output when Sensing Element 2 or Sensing Element 5 generate fire warning.
When software detects discrete output failure, shall assert corresponding discrete output error warning over ARINC429.
DELETED
Software shall perform cold junction compensation on thermal input signal.
Software shall send version information over UART interface one time after PBIT.   
Software shall send software configuration identifier, software version, test/production information, and compile date-time over UART interface one time in Power On Mode.
Software shall enter Fault Mode when below test are failled during CBIT: 
• Cold Junction Test 
• MCU Clock Test
 Software shall enter Fault Mode when any of below test are failled during CBIT: 
• Cold Junction Test 
• MCU Clock Test

Software shall reset if below test are failed during CBIT: 
• MCU Temperature In-Range Test 
• MCU Core Voltage Test 
• MCU Configuration Register Test
  Software shall reset if any of the below test is failed during CBIT: 
• MCU Temperature In-Range Test 
• MCU Core Voltage Test 
• MCU Configuration Register Test
• RAM Test 
Software shall assert error separately for each “SENSING ELEMENT” or its corresponding conditioning circuits, if error is detected.
Software shall assert "SENSING ELEMENT" error if "SENSING ELEMENT" or its corresponding conditioning circuit fault is detected.
Software shall not signal fire and overheat warnings for 3 seconds, with ARINC429 interface, at the end of IBIT.
Software shall enter operational mode when PBIT succeeds.
Software shall handle periodic interrupt latency.

the onboard avionics shall support ATN compliant data link communication
• the onboard avionics shall be able to receive, present and process messages from the
ground stations (CPDLC and AOCDLC)
• the onboard avionics shall enable the crew to generate messages to be down linked to ATC
and AOC (CPDLC and AOCDLC)
• the onboard avionics shall enable four-dimensional trajectory negotiation with ATC
• the onboard avionics shall incorporate an ADS function
• the onboard avionics shall have 4D navigation capabilities
• the onboard avionics shall be capable of generating optimum four-dimensional trajectories
• the onboard avionics shall be capable of four-dimensional guiding
• the onboard HMI shall enable intuitive interaction for flight planning tasks on the EFIS and
the CDU (supported by suitable input devices such as cursor control device)
• the onboard HMI shall incorporate the presentation and generation of communication
messages on the EFIS and the CDU
• the onboard HMI shall incorporate information received via data link into the overall
situation representation (for example graphical presentation of the updated trajectory)
the onboard avionics shall support VDL Mode 4 compliant data link communications
• the onboard avionics shall be able to receive, present and process CPDLC messages from
ATC
• the onboard avionics shall enable the crew to generate CPDLC messages to be downlinked
to ATC
• the onboard avionics shall incorporate an ADS-B function
• the onboard HMI shall incorporate the presentation and generation of communication
messages on the EFIS and the CDU
• the onboard HMI shall incorporate a Cockpit Display of Traffic Information (CDTI)
• the onboard HMI shall incorporate information received via data link into the overall
situation representation (for example graphical presentation of the updated trajectory

Air, ground, and communications systems implemented in accordance with this
specification shall be compliant to ICAO Standards And Recommended Practices (SARPS)
for the ATN, Version 2.3 (ICAO doc 9705-AN/956, FIRST EDITION - 1998), except where
explicitly stated otherwise in these specifications.
[11]
All PETAL-II services are based as far as possible on the ODIAC datalink service
definitions. The operational data contents of messages, and the operational procedures,
system logic and events surrounding the use of those messages, are in accordance with
ICAO doc 9705 for Context Management / Data Link Initiation Capability (CM / DLIC),
Controller/Pilot Data Link Communications (CPDLC), and Automatic Dependent
Surveillance (ADS), wherever possible and for all branches of PETAL-II.
[11]
The operational application of datalink services shall remain at all times under the exclusive
control of the air traffic controllers and aircrew involved.
[12]
Controllers and aircrew firmly require logical responses in support of their datalink
exchanges.
[12] [1.2.3 Operating contexts]
Controllers and aircrew shall have access to both the voice and data communications
capabilities, and the application of air traffic services provided by data communication shall
subject to the judgment of the controllers and aircrew involved. Procedures shall be in place
to revert to voice radiotelephony to resolve any conflicts.
[12] [4.1 Data Link System Operational Principles]
In all cases, voice instructions and acknowledgments should supersede data link
instructions and acknowledgments.
Services and procedures should be provided to ensure the preservation of situational
awareness for both data link and non-data link equipped aircraft and ground facilities.
Aircraft shall be under the control of only one ATC unit at a time, whether or not data link
applications are being used.
[12] [4.1.1 Airborne System Operational Principles]
Operational exchanges of ATS over data link shall only be possible following successful
completion of the DLIC service.
Airborne systems shall provide addressing and flight plan correlation data to each ATSU
involved in the intended flight, or portion of flight where data link will be used, through the
UNCLASSIFIED COMMERCIAL
MA-AFAS WP 1.1
DERA/AS/FMC/CR000287/REV2 115
MA-AFAS WP 1.1
UNCLASSIFIED COMMERCIAL
DLIC service. Baseline 1 ground systems shall not be required to forward or exchange
aircraft addressing data.
[12] [4.1.2 Ground System Operational Principles]
Ground systems shall have full control over controller/aircrew message exchanges. Control
shall be based on operational data type.
[12] [4.2.2 Aircrew Procedures]
Prior to take-off, the aircrew shall input the current flight plan and other data into the
appropriate airborne systems to support Baseline 1 ATS.
Aircrew shall manually trigger log-on/flight plan association in accordance with the DLIC
service description.
Regardless of the method used by the controller to initiate transfer of voice
communications, and whether or not the aircrew uses data link to establish initial contact
with a new ATC sector, aircrew shall use standard voice procedures to complete the
transfer of voice communications from one ATC sector to another. If the "monitor"
instruction is used, voice contact is not necessary.
All aircrew-initiated exchanges shall remain at the discretion of the aircrew involved.
Aircrew shall monitor appropriate voice frequency.
[12] [4.2.3 ATC Procedures]
Data Link will take place if sector traffic levels permit, at the discretion of the Current Radar
Controller.
The Current Radar Controller may start and/or stop data link sessions at any time at his
own discretion.
[12] [5.1.2.1.3 Airborne Equipment Functionality]
Airborne system shall provide at all time VHF air-ground voice communication capability.
Airborne system should be designed such as when operating a data link system, there
should be no increase in pilot in head-down time that would adversely affect safe operation.
The airborne system should provide the aircrew with the capability to respond to ATS
messages: review, validate, and acknowledge any operational messages being delivered or
received. In addition, the flight crew should have the capability to clear, list, select, edit,
store, and retrieve ATS messages sent and received. A desirable option would be the
capability to transfer appropriate flight crew approved information into other existing flight
management functions.
[12] [5.1.2.3 ATC Automation]
The ground system should provide controllers with flight plan indications of data link
capability as well as display indications of data link sessions and eligibility.
The ground system initially contacted by the aircraft should be able to pass the necessary
aircraft address information to another ground station via ground/ground communications
links (ICAO).
NOTE: It has been stated in the same document (4.1.1.3) that "
Baseline 1 ground systems shall not be required to forward or
exchange aircraft addressing data".
[12] [5.1.2.4 Controller Interface]
The controller HMI should provide the controller with the capability to respond to messages,
to issue clearances, instructions, and advisories and to request and provide information as
appropriate. In addition, the controller should have the capability to clear, list, select, edit,
store, and retrieve ATS messages sent and received.
UNCLASSIFIED COMMERCIAL
MA-AFAS WP 1.1
116 DERA/AS/FMC/CR000287/REV2
MA-AFAS WP 1.1
UNCLASSIFIED COMMERCIAL
The controller HMI should be designed such as when operating a data link system, there
should be no increase in controller in head-down time that would adversely affect safe
operation.
Co-ordination between military authorities and air traffic services shall be established per guidelines of 
ICAO Annex 11 Chapter 2 §2.16. In particular, close co-operation between air traffic services authorities and 
military authorities should ensure that special arrangements and procedures protect civil aircraft from 
potentially hazardous military activities 
Moreover, activities potentially hazardous to civil aircraft shall be co-ordinated with the appropriate air 
traffic services authorities per guidelines of ICAO Annex 11 Chapter 2 §2.17. Arrangements shall provide 
enough time to permit timely promulgation of information regarding the activities in accordance with the 
provisions of ICAO Annex 15. 
In order to achieve both objectives of hazard avoidance and minimal interference with normal flight 
operations, ICAO Annex 11 Chapter 2 §2.17.2.1 recommends criteria for the design of specific airspace 
definitions. In particular, ICAO recommends that direct communication between the appropriate ATS 
authority or air traffic services unit and the organization or units conducting the activities are provided for 
use in the event that civil aircraft emergencies or other unforeseen circumstances require discontinuation of 
the activities.
The availability of the ADS system shall be 99.996%.
The availability of the CPDLC system shall be 99.996%.
The ATC Clearances and Information Service shall be available during all flight phases.
The ATC Communications Management Service shall be available during all flight 
phases.
The Downstream Clearance Service shall be available in all flight phases. The DSC 
service shall not be available with the C-ATSU when the aircraft has a C-ATSU link 
established (i.e. the CIC and DSC services shall not be simultaneously active with the 
same ATSU). 
The Departure Clearance Service shall be available from a time period (see 
note) prior to the EOBT (or engine start-up request) until the time the aircraft 
commences movement under its own power.
The Controller Access Parameters Service shall be available in all phases of flight 
between take-off to landing. The required set of parameters to downlink and the 
periodicity of the data collection may change during flight
The Data Link Operational Terminal Information Service shall be available during all 
flight phases, either as a broadcast or as a specific request and delivery message, 
depending on availability, and for the broadcast version, on the actual position of the 
aircraft (within or out of range).
The Data Link Runway Visual Range Service shall be available during all flight phases. 
the controller shall have the possibility to 
manually request the airborne flight plan for an unexpected check in case of doubt 
about the progress of a flight. 
The service shall be terminated as the flight in progress leaves the ATS unit's area of 
responsibility or is starting an approach procedure
The Data Link Significant Meteorological Information Service shall be available during 
all flight phases.
The Data Link Logon Service shall be available during all flight phases. 
ADS-B shall convey an aircraft call sign of up to 7 alphanumeric characters in length [7]. For 
aircraft/vehicles not receiving ATS services and military aircraft the call sign is not required. 
Those aircraft requesting ATC services will be required in some jurisdictions to use the same 24 bit 
address for all CNS systems. Aircraft with Mode-S transponders using an ICAO 24 bit address shall use 
the same 24 bit address for ADS-B (meanwhile mode S is not in the scope of MA-AFAS). All 
aircraft/vehicle addresses shall be unique within the operational domain(s) applicable.
The ADS-B emitter category shall refer to the characteristics of the aircraft or vehicle.
The horizontal latitude and longitude positions shall be reported as a geometric position
Both barometric and geometric altitude shall be reported, if available. 
The reports which will be provided by the ADS system shall include the time of applicability (validity) of 
the position measurement. 
The time shall be expressed in hours/minutes/seconds. 
The ADS report shall include aircraft/vehicle derived ground speed. 
The range of the ground speed shall be up to a max. of 4000 knots 
The ADS system shall be capable of reporting the aircraft derived track angle. 
With either a simulated or real SMGCS system, taxi routes shall be generated and up-linked
to the aircraft. These routes shall include all kinds of possible route information, including
hold-short instructions. To determine the benefits, the same tests should be conducted without
the taxi management system in the aircraft being activated and with the crew following the
normal procedure of writing down and reading back the taxi instructions
Typical CPDLC messages during ground operations shall be sent and received. The aircraft
shall conduct several ground operations with either normal voice communication or with the
CPDLC system.
Several situations where an aircraft enters the active runway shall be simulated/demonstrated
and the alerts being issued recorded.
The ATN communications interface shall be compliant with ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2. 
The aircraft equipment shall support the reception and transmission of ATN messages
through VDL Mode 2 link. 
The aircraft equipment shall support the reception and transmission of ATN messages
through VDL Mode 4 link.
The ground equipment shall support the reception and transmission of ATN messages
through either a VDL4 or a VDL2 link.
The aircraft equipment shall support the reception and transmission of ATN messages
through a satellite communications link.
The ground equipment shall support the reception and transmission of ATN messages
through a satellite communications link.
The CPDLC capabilities of the ground and aircraft equipment shall be compliant with
ODIAC AGC-ORD-01
CPDLC shall implement extensions of ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 CPDLC services
where required to support FLIPCY, DYNAV and Taxi management operational 
functions.
 The CPDLC capability shall implement a subset of ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 CPDLC 
services sufficient to meet the MA-AFAS requirements.
The Data Link Flight Information Services (FIS) shall be compliant with ODIAC AGDORD-01
FIS shall implement a subset of ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 FIS services sufficient to 
perform the scenarios defined for MA-AFAS. 
The aircraft equipment shall implement all ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 ADS-C services.
The ground equipment shall implement all ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 ADS-C services.
The aircraft equipment aircraft shall be capable of receiving urgent communications from 
ATC through a VDL mode 4 link.
The ground equipment aircraft shall be capable of transmitting urgent communications
from ATC through a VDL mode 4 link to the aircraft.
Both voice and CPDLC shall be used for these tests.
The aircraft is at the holding position and receiving a line-up or
take-off clearance. A simulated aircraft or vehicle is
approaching of occupying the runway intended for take-off.
The crew shall become aware of this situation via the ground
CDTI application
The aircraft shall be in several situations where its movement
is restricted due to other aircraft or vehicles. These situations
should include:
 - push-back operation with other aircraft / vehicle passing
behind
 - entering taxiway with other aircraft / vehicle in opposite
direction
 - approaching taxiway intersection while other aircraft
vehicle does the
 same
 The crew shall be instructed either via voice or CPDLC to
follow another aircraft or vehicle. The crew shall use either the
outside vision or the CDTI display to identify and follow that
aircraft / vehicle.
The aircraft position shown on the display shall be compared to the actual position in
the real world or simulated scenario
 the crew testing the system shall provide comments on the value of the
displayed information and it shall be checked if orientation and situation awareness is
enhanced under low visibility conditions. We would also like to have an indication on how
quickly the pilot can retrieve the necessary information from the taxi display (head-down
time).
t. In addition, the
behaviour of the system shall be checked for different taxi speeds when the crew is intending
to stop at the holding position to verify that no nuisance alerts are generated under normal taxi
conditions.
 both the FMS and CMU as required shall record UTC time
stamped ADS and TIS messages showing when messages arrived at the aircraft and were
subsequently displayed to the pilot. 
The aircraft shall follow the normal taxi-in
and taxi-out operations while the taxi map display is activated. This requires that the airport at
which these tests are conducted, i.e. Braunschweig be contained in the taxi map database.
Tests should also be conducted under low visibility conditions.
 The aircraft position shown on the display shall be compared to the actual position in
the real world or simulated scenario
e, the crew testing the system shall provide comments on the value of the
displayed information and it shall be checked if orientation and situation awareness is
enhanced under low visibility conditions
By using simulated or real traffic data, typical scenarios shall be investigated. The traffic
should include aircraft and ground vehicles, following standard tracks like taxi-in/out, followme operations, winter service, etc. These tests should also be performed in low visibility
conditions
With either a simulated or real SMGCS system, taxi routes shall be generated and up-linked
to the aircraft. These routes shall include all kinds of possible route information, including
hold-short of instructions. To be able to estimate the benefits, the same tests should be
conducted without the taxi management system in the aircraft being activated and with the
crew following the normal procedure of writing down and reading back the taxi instructions.
Typical CPDLC messages during ground operations shall be send and received. The aircraft
shall conduct several ground operations with either normal voice communication or with the
CPDLC system
Several situations where the aircraft approaches or enters a runway shall be
simulated/demonstrated and the alerts being issued recorded. Comments from pilots about the
value of these functions are of major interest. In addition, the behaviour of the system shall be
checked for different approach speeds when the crew is intending to stop at the holding
position to verify that no nuisance alerts are generated under normal taxi conditions
The ATN communications interface shall be compliant with ATN SARPS
ICAO 9705/2.
The aircraft equipment shall support the reception and transmission of
ATN messages through VDL Mode 2 link.
At airfields selected for VDLM2-specific trials, the ground stations shall 
support the reception and the transmission of ATN messages through a 
VDL Mode 2 link. 
The aircraft equipment shall support the reception and transmission of
ATN messages through VDL Mode 4 link.
At airfields selected for VDLM4-specific trials, the ground stations shall 
support the reception and the transmission of ATN messages through a 
VDL Mode 4 link. 
The aircraft equipment shall support the reception and transmission of
ATN messages through a satellite communications link.
The ground equipment shall support the reception and transmission of
ATN messages through a satellite communications link.
The CPDLC capabilities of the ground and aircraft equipment shall be
compliant with ODIAC AGC-ORD-01.
CPDLC shall implement extensions of ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 CPDLC 
services where required to support FLIPCY, DYNAV and Taxi
management operational functions
The CPDLC capability shall implement a subset of ATN SARPS ICAO 
9705/2 CPDLC services sufficient to meet the MA-AFAS trials
requirements.
The Data Link Flight Information Services (FIS) shall be compliant with 
ODIAC AGD-ORD-01 
FIS shall implement a subset of ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 FIS services
sufficient to perform the scenarios defined for MA-AFAS.
The aircraft equipment shall implement all ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2
ADS-C services.
The ground equipment shall implement all ATN SARPS ICAO 9705/2 
ADS-C services.
The aircraft equipment aircraft shall be capable of receiving urgent
communications from ATC through a VLD mode 4 link.
The ground equipment aircraft shall be capable of transmitting urgent
communications from ATC through a VLD mode 4 link to the aircraft. 
Application for approval of an STC under JAR-21 Subpart E shall in all 
cases be made to the NAA of the STC applicant
In the case of an STC under JAR-21 Subpart N-E, application for approval
shall be made to any NAA at the discretion of the applicant (see JAR21.N113), and must include a declaration by the applicant that he has filed
an application with this NAA only.



